A backslider
A lazy, irresponsible person who does not support a combines effort; someone who causes development to slide backwards rather than forwards; someone who can’t be trusted to get a job done. 
“I see you have assigned Captain Morgan to my project. He’s a no-good backslider who will hinder rather than further the success of the mission.” 
“Mallory is nothing but a backslider. He’s never done anything useful in his life that would bring
credit to his name or family.” 
“If I ever get my hands on that backslider, Mullins, I will kick him in the backside
for letting down his wife and children by wasting his life
on gambling and drink.”*

A back-stabber
Just as a person may sneak up behind you to stick a knife
in your back, so we can call a person a back-stabber who
unexpectedly betrays your trust. 
“Be careful who you
trust, because even your best friend could turn out to be a
backstabber.” “My first wife was a backbiting, backstabbing-bitch.” “I wouldn’t trust Charlie as far as I
could throw him. He’s a liar, a thief and a back-stabber.”*

A bad omen
A bad sign which indicates that, when a bad thing happens, something even worse is going to happen. A sign
that something bad or evil is going to come. 
“It’s a bad
omen that our son was born on Friday the thirteenth.”
“They say it is a bad omen when a black cat crosses your
path.” “It’s a bad omen when a voodoo witch smears, the
blood of a chicken on your front door.” *

A baker’s dozen 
It used to be an old English marketplace tradition to pay
for twelve bread rolls, and get one extra one, thrown in
for good measure, to make a total of thirteen. “In the
London market, a baker’s dozen doesn’t mean twelve. It
means thirteen.” “Before Britain joined the European
common market, people sold things by the dozen in units
of twelve, or perhaps thirteen, if they gave the customer a
baker’s dozen.” “We had thirteen children in our family,
and father was fond of saying he had produced a baker’s
dozen.”*

A ballpark figure 
A guess as to how many people are in a baseball or football stadium; an approximate estimate of how-many or
how-much. “I can’t tell you exactly how many spectators
came to see the game, but if you want a ballpark figure,
my estimate would be about sixty thousand.” “How 
much is this wedding reception going to cost? Can you
give me a ballpark figure?” “I hate it when people say
they will give me a ballpark figure. What I want is an
exact number and not an approximate guess.” *

A barefaced-lie 
A bold and brazen untruthful statement; a shameless, obvious lie. “Don’t try to tell me you gave the money to
some poor old woman. That’s a brazen and barefacedlie!” “When you claim you don’t desire other women, I
can see that you are telling a barefaced-lie.” “Don’t try to
deny you stole the cookies; I know it is a bare-faced lie.”*

A bee in her bonnet 
Just as woman with a bee in her hat (or bonnet) might
run around, wildly, waving her hands in a panic, so we
may say that a woman with an angry idea in her head reacts in frantic and frightful manner. “My Mom has got a
bee in her bonnet about Father’s forgetting Valentine’s
Day.” “Don’t run around like a woman with a bee in her
bonnet just because someone said you are too tight and
stingy.” “Aunt Caroline had a bee in her bonnet because
the Ambassador had left her off the invitation list for Ladies’ Night.” *

A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
Be satisfied with what you’ve got; don’t dream of what
you have not. “If you let go of the bird that you have in
your hand in hopes of catching two in the bushes, you
will more than likely end-up empty-handed.” “It’s better
to be thankful for what little you have; than being disappointed by unfulfilled desire for twice as much, a bird in
the hand is worth two in the bush.” “Be content with the
one thing that you have rather than be discontented by
two things you desire but are unlikely to get because a
bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.” *

A bit beyond my ken 
Above my level of understanding; beyond my ability to
grasp; more than I can comprehend; beyond my knowledge. “I could never understand the physics behind pressure points causing geological rifts on the sea-bed at the
point where continental plates meet. It’s a bit beyond my
ken.” “The justification for Heisenberg’s uncertainty
principle is a bit beyond my ken.” “It is beyond my ken
why and how a whole galaxy can be sucked together and
disappear into a black hole.” *

A bit dicey 
A little risky; chancy; a gamble, as in a throw of the dice;
uncertain; not totally honest. “I wouldn’t invest any
money in such a chancy venture. It seems a bit dicey to
me.” “Don’t take any risks in business. Bet on a sure
thing and avoid anything that looks dicey.” “I wouldn’t
want to trust Charlie as a business consultant: his longshot ideas always seem a bit dicey to me.” *
A bit dodgy 
Dishonest; tricky; dicey; dubious; chancy risky. “A business that dodges the law is a dodgy business.’ “I
wouldn’t invest money any of those pyramid schemes.
They all seem a bit dodgy to me.” “It’s a bit risky to deposit money offshore in the hands of total strangers. It
sounds a bit dodgy to me.” *

A bit much 
Over-exaggerated; over-stated; too flashy; over the top.
“I found the accusations in your speech towards the
Prime Minister a bit much, a bit over the top, I would
say.” “Appearing in court with pink hair and a ring in
your nose before the judge was a bit much. Don’t you
think?” “I think that your leaving your wife at home
alone, while attending a public reception with another
woman, was a bit much!” *

A bit obtuse
A little dull and stupid; incapable of understanding; a bit
thick; slow-witted; a little too-dumb to understand. “I
didn’t understand you. I must be a bit obtuse. Can you
explain it to me again?” “Being obtuse is no excuse. If
you are too dull-witted to do this job, we’ll get someone
to replace you.” “You must be a bit obtuse if you can’t
even understand how to follow simple orders and directions.” *

A bit on the side 
When one has casual sexual relations outside the primary
sexual partnership, we say that person is getting a bit on
the side. “Tom and Tina seem to be the perfect married
couple, but if Tina knew Tom was getting a bit on the
side, she wouldn’t be so happy.” “My big sister, Kitty,
says she wants to marry a rich, old man but keep a young
boyfriend, at the same time, so she can get a bit on the
side.” “Men are always dreaming about getting a bit on
the side, but they would never dream that wives might be
dreaming about the same thing.” *
A bit out of it Mentally out of contact with the world; not quite all
there; not with it; out of the picture. “Excuse me, if I
don’t seem to be listening. Today I’m a bit out of it because of the drugs the doctor gave me.” “My girlfriend
has just broken-off with me. I can’t concentrate on my
work; I’m a bit out of it.” “Pay no attention to my idiot
brother. He’s a bit out of it; he’s not all there you know.”*

A bloodsucker
Just as a leech sticks to you and sucks your blood, so another person may be said to stick to you, like a parasite,
in order to obtain personal gain and benefit. “My first
wife drained my bank account, just in the way a leech
sucks blood from the body. She was a real bloodsucker.”
“Harvey’s wife, Lolita, is the kind of person who just
wants to marry for money. She’s nothing but a bloodsucker.” “Don’t be such a bloodsucker, and stop leeching
off your friends all the time.” * 

A brainwave 
An unexpected clever idea or insight; a stroke of genius;
a sudden inspiration. “I had the brainwave of installing a
Bluetooth System in my car radio, connected to the GPS,
which would allow the car to run more-or-less on autopilot. Tests begin tomorrow.” “Who was it who had the
brainwave to inflate big air balloons by burning nitrogen?” “Einstein was the genius who had the brainwave
that the speed of a moving particle in a relative relationship to another moving particle could be measured.” *

A breath of fresh air 
Just as we feel better after going outside a stifling, suffocating, boring environment to get a breath of fresh air, so
it can be refreshing when someone or something new enters into a stuffy atmosphere. “When Tony Blair, was
elected, Prime Minister, he brought a breath of fresh air
into an otherwise conservative and boring, British political world.” “When young Jane joined the staff, she was
like a breath of fresh air in an otherwise, stuffy and stagnant atmosphere.” “It was a real breath of fresh air when
the Judge called in Cheery Cherry, Mr. Wong’s, exgirlfriend, to the witness stand in to tell all she knew.” *

A brush with death 
A near accidental encounter with death; an incident in
which one comes very close to dying. “While crossing
the street in Bangkok, yesterday, I had a close brush with
death, when a speeding motorcyclist swerved barely in
time to avoid hitting me head-on.” “The captain and crew
of the submarine had a close brush with death, when a
German torpedo, passed within half a meter of the port
side of the hull.” “When I was mountain-climbing, I once
had a brush with death, when I lost my footing and fell
about forty-five meters straight down through the air and
was only saved by my safety harness.” *

A bum-steer 
Purposely give someone the wrong directions on how to
get somewhere or how to do something; give incorrect or
wrong information to lead someone on a false trail; to
mislead someone by giving bad advice. “Because country folks, in Tennessee, don’t like city-slickers, they often
give them a bum-steer if they stop their cars to ask for
directions.” “We were afraid the other rally team would
reach the destination before us, so we purposely misled
then with a bum-steer to throw them off-track for a
while.” “My stock broker foolishly gave me a bum-steer
on some risky stocks that declined dramatically in market
value.” *

A bundle of energy 
A person who is packed-full of power and energy.
“President Kennedy was seen by many as a youthful
bundle of energy who was very enthusiastic and dedicated to the cause of equal rights and employed all his
spiritual and physical strength to fight for the cause of 
democracy.” “My little sister is a bundle of energy who
does everything she can to make sure the get the job gets
done. “My Campaign manager, Mary Hines, has been a
real bundle of energy, the moving force behind our political success.” *

A bundle of nerves 
A person who is very stressed and jumpy. “I have been
under so much pressure in the office and at home recently that I am little more than a bundle of nerves.”
“Continued stress can turn you into a bundle of nerves.”
“Before I have to give a presentation or speech, I am always a bundle of nerves.” *

A case in point 
An actual example to illustrate; a factual act which illustrates the point; an instance used to prove or explain a
point. “There have been many female figures in the political world that have helped unite divergent factions. A
case in point would be Sonya Gandhi.” “Multi-national
mergers can be beneficial to both sides. A case in point
was the merger of KPMG with Arthur Andersen which
brought benefits to both sides.” “Sometimes a son can
follow in his father’s footsteps right up into the highest
level of political office. A case in point would be George
Bush Jr. holding the same post as George Bush Sr.” *

A case of the dropsy 
When a person keeps dropping things, letting things slip
and fall from his fingers, we say he has a case of the
dropsy. “I keep dropping dishes on the kitchen floor. I’ve
got a case of the dropsy.” “Oops! I dropped my key
again. I’ve got a case of the dropsy.” “Because Grandfather has poor blood circulation and limited feeling in the
ends of his fingers, he keeps dropping things; it’s a classic example of the dropsy.” *

 A cipher 
 An insignificant person; someone not even worthy of notice; a nothing and a no body. “You are a person of no
account. No one cares in the least about you, because you
are just a cipher!” “Sometimes, within the structure of
our company, I feel like nothing more than an insignificant statistic on a broad spread-sheet. I feel like such a
cipher.” “Her first husband was a real cipher; he was
about as significant as a fly speck on the wall.” *

A clean break 
A clear and final breaking-off of relations; finally finishing and leaving for good. “I want to leave the company
and make a clean break with the audit profession because
I find it too stressful for me.” “My wife and I have decided to make a clean break, and go our own separate
ways.” “When I retired as a military man, I decided to
make a clean break with the past and to devote myself to
peace and charity.” *

A clean slate 
Starting off with a clean record. i.e. after having confessed your wrong-doings and served your punishment. 
“My teacher says that once I have served my punishment
for cheating, I will have erased my bad record and I can
start off with a clean slate.” “Now that I have served my
prison sentence, I can start off with a clean slate and start
a new and better life.” “Once a murder has done his time
and paid his debt to society, he is released from prison
with a clean slate and allowed to rejoin society.” *

A clip over the ear 
A slap on the side of the head; a smack on the ear; a box
on the ear. “My son, if you don’t stop that noise I’ll give
you a clip over the ear.” “Father says that if he ever
catches me lying, he’ll give me a clip over the ear.” “I’ll
give you a good clip over the ear if I ever hear you saying anything nasty like that again.” *

A close call 
A narrow escape; a close shave; a brush with danger,
nearly missing death. “The pilot landed his plane on the
runway, just as it was running out of fuel. It was quite a
close call.” “The bomb squad disarmed the explosive device just a few seconds before it was about to go off. It
was a very close call.” “The farmer was rescue-lifted by
helicopter from the rooftop of his barn just as the nearby
dam was about to burst. It was a close call.” *

A close shave 
A close call; brush with danger; a near accident. “My
cousin, Clem, threw a hunting knife at me that whizzed
so close by me under my ear that it nearly cut the whiskers from my cheek. That was a close shave.” “The enemy
shot a missile at the plane which whistled by within
inches of the fuselage, as the pilot was starting to loop to
avoid impact. That was certainly a close shave, if there
ever was one.” “Last night, in the warehouse, I had a
close shave with death, when the crane operator dropped
a container that hit the ground in just in front of me.” *

A crushing blow 
A hurtful action; a disappointing defeat; a strong setback.
“When my wife packed-up and left me, it was a crushing
blow.” “It was a crushing blow when I lost my job during
the financial crisis.” “It was a crushing blow for the Conservative Party when the Liberals won the election.” *

A crying-shame 
A pity; a disgrace; something unfair that makes us feel
sorry for the victimized. “It’s a crying-shame so many
children are dying of malnutrition throughout the world,
while the rest of us become fat and overweight.” “It’s a
crying shame the way a small minority is getting rich on
corruption, while the majority of the poor don’t have a
the chance to earn a decent living.” “It’s a crying-shame
the way Malone spends all his time and money drinking
in the pub while making no effort to take care of his wife
and children.” *

A cushy job 
An easy job that is not demanding or difficult; a comfortable, enjoyable job that does not take too much effort. 
“The managing director has given his mistress a nice,
cushy job in his office, and the rest of the staff members
are feeling resentful” “My best friend has got a nice,
cushy job in an air-conditioned office, while I have to
work really hard, out in the heat of the day as a gardener.” “I wish I could get a nice cushy job where I
wouldn’t have too much to do and not very much responsibility” *

A cut above the average 
Better than most; higher than normal; quite good compared to normal standards. “The new, young, foreign
graduates that we have been hiring are a cut above average because they have been trained in a more up-to-date
educational system.” “Our work for the client must be a
cut above average if we want to stay competitive in the
market.” “Your son, Stan, is certainly a cut above average when compared to the rest of the students in class.” *

A drop in the bucket 
A small part of the whole; very little compared to the total amount; a small fraction of the total sum “The amount
the government is investing in environmental research is
a drop in the bucket compared to what it spends on national defense.” “Government aid of a million dollars for
Tsunami refugees is just a drop in the bucket in contrast
to the huge amount that foreign non-government agencies are presently spending.” “The money I lost on gambling in Los Vegas is just a drop in the bucket compared
to the massive amount of income taxes I have to pay
every year.” *

A drop in the ocean 
Just a small amount compared to the size of the whole;
only a little bit of the total quantity. “A million dollars is
a drop in the ocean compared to the total amount needed
to combat starvation and hunger in the Sudan.” “The little bit he gives to charity is just a drop in the ocean compared to money he wastes on drink and women.” “What
the company spends on staff development is just a drop
in the ocean compared to what it spends on developing
the company image.” *

A dud 
Just as a bomb that has been dropped may fail to explode
due to a faulty triggering-device, so a plan, or performance may lack the necessary spark to fire the imagination
of the public. “The fireworks extravaganza was a disastrous disappointment, because the ignition devices didn’t
go off in sequence, so the whole show was a dud.” “The
high school opening performance of a Shakespeare’s
play, Macbeth, failed to awaken the imagination of the
student body. It was a real and total dud” “Even the most
expensive film ever made by Hollywood would be a gigantic dud, if it didn’t feature big-name stars and a have
a huge promotion budget.” * 

A fair crack at 
A chance to try your luck; an opportunity to fix or solve
a problem; an opening or possibility to show how well
you can do. “I know I could be a good movie actress if I
were given a fair crack at it.” “If I were given a fair crack
at solving the traffic problem, I’d have it fixed within
three months.” “If I am given the chance of becoming the
company managing director, I’m sure I’d be a success.
All I need is a fair crack at it.” *

A fat lot of good that will do.
That won’t help much; won’t make matters better; won’t
do any good; won’t improve the situation. “You can invest another million in your business, but a fat lot of
good that will do, if your cost of investment continues to
exceed profits from sales.” “You can fill the tank of the
car with gas, but a fat lot of good that will do if you don’t
get the fuel pump fixed as well.” “You may have a good
business plan, but a fat lot of good that will do if you
can’t find the cash for the start-up costs.” *

A fat lot you care! 
Indicates you know that the other person has no sympathy or understanding for you. “I’m falling apart emotionally because I’m disappointed about our love, but a fat lot
you care!” “Your hate and greed have driven me to destruction, but a fat lot you care!” “I’ve never been
through such terrible suffering in my life, but I can see
you have absolutely no pity for me. A fat lot you care!” *

A fate worse than death 
Suffering that is so bad that dying would be easier or
maybe better. “Being in a state of insufferable pain for
months and months is a fate worse than death itself.”
“Loving someone who is burning with hatred towards
you can be compared with a fate worse than death” “It’s
possible to argue that there is no fate worse than death,
but being married to my wife would surely put you to the
test.” *

A feather in your cap 
Just as in the old days when hunters wore a fine-looking
feather, stuck into the band of their caps, as a sign of
their hunting skill, so, nowadays, we can say someone
deserves a feather in his cap when he has done something
well or worthy of recognition. “You deserve a feather in
your cap for all the time you have devoted to community
service.” “Collins deserves a feather in his cap for solving the math problem in half the time it took the others.”
“Winning a Nobel Prize is the highest modern-dayequivalent of wearing a feather in your cap.” *

A feeding-frenzy 
Just as man-eating piranha fish will swarm to a chunk of
flesh, which is thrown into the water, and have a feeding
frenzy, so “mass media reporters, for example, can
swarm to the scene a and have a ‘feeding frenzy’ wherever a big star is involved in a public scandal.” “The
press had a feeding frenzy when the big Tsunami hit 
South East Asia, killing in excess of forty thousand victims.” “It is despicable the way that the press can create a
feeding frenzy when disaster strikes, because the viewing
audience is hungry for information.” *

A fine kettle of fish 
Just as a pot of fish will begin to stink if it stands for too
long, so a problem that is neglected too long will be hard
to fix; a mistake hard to remedy; a situation that is hard
to get out of. “This is a fine kettle of fish. Our daughter is
pregnant, her boyfriend is in jail, and nobody quite
knows what to do.” “Now you have got yourself into a
fine kettle of fish. You’ve been caught cheating just before graduation and there’s no excuse.” “It’s a fine kettle
of fish. You need one million for bail and all your accounts have been frozen, so it’s a dilemma that cannot be
resolved.” *

A fine state of affairs! 
A big problem; a situation that is hard to resolve; a set of
conditions that have been allowed to arise but cannot so
easily be made to cease. “This is a fine state of affairs!
What are we going to say to your father when he finds
out that you are in love with a married-man?” “This is a
fine state of affairs! How could you allow your finances
to get into such a terrible mess?” “This is a fine state of
affairs. Your father did not leave a last will and testament
and the family will be fighting over his assets for years to
come.” *

A fly in the ointment 
Just as there can be a fly in the ointment or balm used as
a medicine, so there can be a problem in what is seen as
the solution. “When there is a fly in the ointment, we
may still have to use it to treat the disease, but we don’t
feel perfectly happy with the cure.” “Well, we’ve found a
solution regarding the transfer of funds, but there’s a fly
in the ointment because there will be a tax increase of
five percent.” “I got them to comply with the late payment agreement but there is a fly in the ointment because
the agreement must be renegotiated before the next payment period.” *

A freak of nature 
Something that happens that does not follow the usual
pattern of nature. “A man born with one eye in the middle of his forehead is a freak of nature.” “It is hard to determine if someone born with mixed male and female
body parts is a freak of nature.” “Even if a Tsunami tidal
wave arises only once in a thousand years, it is not a
freak occurrence. It is not a freak of nature because it
happens in accordance with the laws of nature.” *

A free bit of advice 
A suggestion given that isn’t requested; an unsolicitedopinion. “Let me give you a free bit of advice. ‘Next time
you want to open your mouth, remember that the teeth
are at home when the mouth is closed.’” “Because I am 
older, let me give you a bit of free advice: ‘No older person ever gave any younger person any piece of useful
advice’.” “I’ll give you a bit of free advice, ‘If you want
to stay out of trouble, don’t go around giving people bits
free advice.” *

A frog in your throat 
Laryngitis; a physical condition that makes your voice
sound deeper, as though you had a frog in your throat; or
when you have a bad cold that makes your voice sounds
like a low, hoarse croak. “Sorry, if you can’t hear me in
the back. I’ve got a frog in my throat and I cannot speak
any more loudly.” “Mr. Peters cannot speak to you now.
He’s got a frog in his throat, and has to rest his voice for
the speech he has got to give this evening.” “I’ve got tonsillitis and it makes me sound like I’ve got a frog in my
throat.” *

A funny feeling 
A strange sense that something is wrong; a suspicion that
something bad is going to happen. “When he asked me to
come to his room to look at some pictures, I had a funny
feeling that something was wrong.” “When my boss
called me and asked me to come to his office, I had the
funny feeling that I had done something wrong.” “When
the four gangsters asked me to get into their car to go and
talk to their boss, I had a funny feeling I might never
come back alive.” *

A good egg 
Just as we can speak of a person who is a rotten egg, who
can spoil a whole basket, so we may say someone else is
a good egg, meaning that he does no harm and fits in
well for the sake of the general good. “You’ll like my
Uncle Bob. He’s a good egg and is well-loved by everyone in the family.” “My boss is really a good egg and
everyone likes working with him.” “Our Uncle Charlie is
really a good egg and is always doing things to help other
people.” *
A good omen 
A good sign that something good or something better is
going to happen. “When the rainy season begins with
heavy showers, this is a good omen that the rice harvest
will be good that year.” “I always think it’s a good omen
when there are two full moons in one monthly cycle; that
is a sign of good luck.” “I think it is a good omen that
there have been fewer and fewer terrorist attacks in the
South in the last few months.” *

A greenhorn 
Someone with little or no experience; a novice; a beginner; a person who comes in with no idea of what to do
and has to learn to cope quickly. “When I first joined the
circus, I was a total greenhorn and not much good for
anything but, bit-by-bit; I learned a few tricks and was
then able to take part in the performances.” “A new recruit in the navy comes as a greenhorn and has to learn 
the ropes, but, after twenty years before the mast, he is
considered an old hand.” “When I first came to the Wild
West from the city of Boston, at the age of sixteen, people teased me and called me a greenhorn, but I eventually
got the hang of things, and, later became an experienced
cowboy.” *

A gut feeling 
A natural instinct or intuition that tells you when something is going to go wrong. “I have a gut feeling that you
are lying to me.” “People sometimes have a gut feeling
that tells them not to trust somebody.” “A gut feeling is
something like a sixth sense of awareness that is located
in your stomach rather than your head.” *

A hard nut to crack 
A difficult, inflexible person who is hard to convince or
win over to your way of thinking or seeing things.
“Roger is so stubborn that it will be almost impossible to
get him to agree. He’s a real hard nut to crack.” “It’s hard
to get grandfather to open up his mind and see things
other people’s way. He’s so obstinate; he’s a tough nut to
crack.” “When our administrative supervisor has got a
fixed idea in her head, it’s hard to get her to change her
mind. She’s a real tough nut to crack.” *

A harrowing- experience 
A frightening-occurrence; terrifying-event; chillingincident; scary, disturbing hair-raising; traumatic; stressful; distressing; upsetting experience. “Seeing a ghost in
the haunted castle of my ancestors was the most harrowing experience I’ve ever had in my life.” “Surviving the
horrific shipwreck in the howling gale was an harrowingexperience for the Captain and the crew” “Seeing my beloved mother, lying dead in her coffin, all laid-out in
white linen, was a harrowing experience I shall not soon
forget.” *

A hell of a time 
A difficult time trying to get something accomplished;
trying hard and meeting so many obstacles so that it is
like going through hell. “In school, I had a hell of a time
trying to understand algebra.” “Our auditor had a hell of
a time getting through all the necessary paperwork to get
the data compiled on time.” “I had a hell of a time convincing the logistics manager that the equipment must be
put in place previous to the contractual deadline date.” *

A hollow leg 
When a person eats so much that you wonder how he’s
got room for any more, we often say that it goes into his
hollow leg. “That boy eats so much that he must have a
hollow leg.” “He won the world’s record for eating fifty
hamburgers within one hour, and when they asked how
he did it, he joked that he had a hollow leg.” “I always
feel so hungry that I could eat a horse. My mother says I
must have hoards of maggots in my hollow leg.” *

A horse of a different 
One thing that cannot be compared to another because it 
color is so dissimilar; easy to distinguish, as being different;;
another thing altogether. “You cannot compare ambition
to greed. Greed is a horse of a different color.” “Nixon as
compared to Johnson was a horse of a different color.”
“Lust is not love; it’s another thing altogether. It’s a
horse of a different color.” *

A hothead 
Someone who quickly gets angry and furious for almost
no reason and reacts immediately without thinking. “Our
brother, William, is such a hothead that he’s going to get
himself into big trouble one day.” “I know you’re a hothead, but don’t jump the gun and fly-off-the-handle until
you have heard the full story.” “Don’t be such a hothead!
Cool down for a minute and listen to me and I’ll explain
what I actually said about your sister and why I said it.” *

A jarring-experience 
An unexpected, loud, unpleasant, harsh sound or an upsetting, surprising experience, contrary to expectation;
that jars one into a rude awakening or jars on the nerves.
“Our group’s meditation session was suddenly disturbed
by the loud, screeching, grating sound of metal on metal.
What a jarring experience that was!” “Some older people say that modern experimental music grates upon the
nerves and is a jarring, rather than harmonious experience.” “It was a jarring experience for investors to hear
that the stock market had suddenly bottomed-out and
they all had lost their fortunes.” *

A joy to behold 
Seeing someone or something and being filled with love
and joy at that moment. “Our new, little baby is so
lovely! It is a joy to behold.” “It was a joy to behold our
son coming back alive and well after the war.” “Seeing
all the family here in harmony together is a joy to behold.” *

A kick in the pants 
A boot in the rear; a kick in the arse. “Every time I used
to lie, my father would give me a kick in the pants to try
to teach me a lesson.” “If I ever catch you stealing candy
from a baby again, I’ll give you a kick in the pants you’ll
never forget.” “You deserve a kick in the pants for the
way you have disappointed your little sister.” *

A leech 
Just as a leech sucks blood from the human body, so
some people may be said to be leeching from others for
their own benefit. “Don’t be such a leech! Go out and get
a job and stop living off of others.” “That guy is nothing
but a leech. He never worked a day in his life and is always leeching and sponging off others.” “Stop hanging
around the bar like a parasitic leech without ever ordering a round of drinks for the others.” *

A leopard can’t change its spots.
Some people are so fixed in their ways that they cannot
change. “When we think someone is so stubborn and
fixed in his ways that he will never change, we compare 
him to an old leopard cannot change its spots.” “When
we know that it is impossible to get someone to change
his nature, we say that a leopard cannot change its spots.”
“Don’t even try to Grandfather to change his behavior; a
leopard can never change its spots.”*

A little bird told me 
When someone asks you who told you something, and
you don’t want to tell them who informed you, you can
say A little bird told me. “A little bird told me that you
are planning to leave the company and try to take some
of your clients with you. Is that True?” “When I asked
my girlfriend, Molly how she found out that I was a married-man, she said that a little bird had told her.” “That
evening, when I got home, I discovered that my wife was
the little bird who had telephoned Molly and told her to
keep her grubby hands off me.” *

A little green 
Young and inexperienced; wet behind the ears; unsophisticated; unproven; unseasoned; raw. “When I first started
working as a journalist, I was a little green and inexperienced, but after a year or so, once I got used to the job, it
became rather routine.” “We’ll let young Jacobs have a
try at the job. He’s still a little young and green, but he’s
a fast-learner and will soon get the knack of it.” “When
Christopher first came to New York from Buffalo he was
still green, unsophisticated and wet behind the ears, but
he soon got used to the way New Yorkers behave, and
now he’s just like them.” *

A little leery 
A bit dubious, doubtful, skeptical of something or somebody. “I’m a little leery about trusting my husband to pay
directly in cash, so I’m paying the invoice by bank order
instead.” “We are a little leery about trusting our investment partner to hold up his end of the bargain, because
we know he may purposely breach the contract for his
own ends.” “I’m a little leery about investing in my son’s
business plan because I know he does not know how to
handle money.” *

A load off my mind 
To feel mental relief; to become free of a mental worry
or burden; to feel a sense of release in having solved a
problem or conflict; to come to and understanding. “Now
that I’ve paid off my bank loan that’s a real load off my
mind.” “Finally getting my contract renewed was a real
load off my mind.” “I’m glad that I’ve given up that old
grudge against my sister. It’s a load off my mind.” *

A lot of balls 
A bold, straightforward manner; a lot of nerve; courage
and impudence mixed together. “You have got a lot of
balls telling me how to live a moral life when you have
made such a nasty mess of your own.” “It takes a lot of
balls to invest all you have on a business venture and
beat the competition to the punch.” “You have to have a 
lot of balls to go into a meeting of the board of directors
and tell them they are doing things all wrong.” *

A lot of baloney 
A lot of lies; hogwash, bullshit, bunkum; nonsense; garbage. “I don’t believe a word you say. You are talking a
lot of baloney.” “Don’t give me that baloney. Stop talking garbage and tell me the truth.” “Don’t be fooled by
anything he says, it’s a lot of baloney.” *

A lot of bunk 
A load of lies and false statements; a lot of baloney; a lot
of nonsense; misinformation. “Don’t give me that bunk. I
have read the police report and I know the full facts already.” “Never talk a lot of bunk and doubletalk to get a
client to sign an agreement. Just find out what he wants
and, then, give it to him.” “He talks a lot of blarney to get
you to invest in his business schemes, but don’t believe a
word he says. It’s just a lot of bunk; he is full of baloney.” *

A lot of fun 
Enjoyable; pleasurable; amusing. “We had a lot of fun at
the party. Everyone was laughing and enjoying them
selves all night.” “At the Oktoberfest, people were having a lot of fun going on rides, shooting at targets, playing games of chance, and dancing and drinking beer.” “I
loved your bachelor party on Friday night. I haven’t had
such a lot of fun since before I was married.” *

A lot of malarkey 
A load of double-talk; a load of bunkum; nonsense; hot
air; hogwash; untruth. “Taffy is always talking a lot of
malarkey; he comes from a long line of liars and braggarts.” “Don’t give me all that malarkey! I don’t believe
a word you are saying.” “My husband didn’t come home
until almost dawn, and, this morning, he tried to give me
a lot of malarkey about his car breaking down on a deserted country road.” *

A lot of moola 
A lot of money. ‘When I grow up, I want to be a big
wheel and have a lot of moola.” “If you want to get in
good with the girls, you’ve got to have a lot of moola.”
“We paid five- hundred million for this piece of land, and
that’s a lot of moola!” *

A lot of nonsense 
A lot of gibberish, rubbish, garbage, baloney; incoherent
talk. “Don’t talk a lot of nonsense! Use your head to
think straight for a change.” “When I was young, I had a
lot of childish dreams and nonsense in my head.” “The
theory that the economy collapsed because of the greed
of foreign currency brokers is a lot of nonsense. It was a
bubble economy that was bound to burst when it balanced out at its true value.” *

A lot of pluck 
A lot of nerve, guts, courage. “It takes a lot of pluck to
go up to the boss and tell him he is about to make a big
mistake.” “It sometimes takes a lot of pluck to tell a
woman that you admire and adore her.” “It took a lot of 
pluck for the company accountant to inform the revenue
department that the firm was not following generally accepted accounting standards.” *

A lot of riffraff 
A lot of low, trashy people; common rabble. “The upper
classes consider the lower classes as just a lot of riffraff.”
“My mother says my friends from the street are just a lot
of riffraff.” “Some schools set their fees exceptionally
high because they don’t want to accept a lot of riffraff.” *

A lot of water under the bridge
Just as we can say that a lot of water has passed under the
bridge over time, so we can say that we have had a lot of
experiences since a certain point in time in the past. “A
lot of water has passed under the bridge since the day I
was presented my graduation diploma.” “A lot of water
has passed under the bridge since I experienced my fist
disappointment in love.” “A lot of water has passed under the bridge since the old days when you used to get a
free lunch by just appearing in the pub.” *

A low blow 
Just as in the rules of boxing, it is unfair to punch or hit
below the belt, so we can say that a person’s unfair moral
action is by comparison a low blow. “What you did to
me was a hit below the belt; an unfair punch, a low
blow” “Saying something bad to damage another’s reputation may be said to be a low blow, below the belt.”
“Bringing up the subject my secret sexual misdeeds of
the past in front of my all my family and friends was certainly a low blow.” *

A man after my own heart
Someone who thinks and feels and acts the same way
you do. “I like you. You are a man after my own heart
who always says everything he knows and tells the
truth.” “Jim Soutar is a man after my own heart who believes we can gain wisdom from probing into the lost secrets of antiquity.” “You are a man after my own heart
who believes in doing the good for the greater benefit of
mankind.” *

A man of means 
A wealthy man with lots of money and assets. “Andrew
Carnegie was a man of means who donated a lot of his
money for the benefit of society.” “My grandfather was a
man of means who built this big house at the beginning
of the last century. “ “Cynthia wants to marry a rich man
of means who promises her everything and always says
what he means.” *

A matter of fact 
A true item of data or information. “We all know that a
stone drops following the law of gravity. It’s a matter of
fact that cannot be denied.” “You have to believe the
number on the bottom line of the auditor’s report as the
true the sum of the actual costs. It is a matter of fact.” “I
totally disagree with your silly assumption that mother
died of a broken heart. As a matter of actual fact it says 
on her death certificate that she died of a physical condition called congestive heart failure.” *

A matter of form 
The correct manner and pattern of behavior to which one
must comply. “When you visit the temple to pay respect
to a monk, you must bow before him three times. It is a
matter of form” “In the olden days, up-country, a woman
had to walk three paces behind her man. It was a matter
of form” “When you pass the security guard as you are
entering the building you must show you identity card,
even if he know your face and sees you every day. It is a
matter of form.” *

A miserly sort 
A stingy person; a penny-pincher; someone who hates to
part with a penny. “Old Roderick is a miserly sort. He
would rather lunch on tea and biscuits than pay for a
normal meal.” “Old Uncle Scrooge was such a miserly
sort that he didn’t want to part with a penny, even in the
spirit of giving on Christmas Day.” “Geoffrey’s wife is a
spendthrift, and he is a miserly sort.” *

A new broom sweeps clean.
Just as a new broom sweeps clean because its bristles are
strong and rigid, so a new boss or administrator may
make a strong impression by demanding that, as of now,
everything be done in his way. “The candidate promised
he would stop corruption, in the way that a new broom
sweeps clean.” “After Alicia became Dean, a lot of inefficient faculty and staff were fired; a new broom sweeps
clean.” “After Hicks became CEO, everyone who was
against him was never seen again. A new broom sweeps
clean.” *

A new lease on life 
A chance to start life afresh and do it better next time. “I
have taken a six-week course in positive thinking that has
given me a new lease on life.” “After becoming a Christian Scientist, I developed a new lease on life.” “What I
learned about religion when I was in prison gave me a
new lease on life.” *

A new slant 
A different way of looking at something; a different angle, viewpoint, perspective. “This new evidence gives us
a new slant on the question in debate.” “Thanks for listening to my problems and giving me advice. You have
given me a totally new slant on life.” “We are looking for
someone who can give us a new slant in approaching
wider market appeal to teenagers.” *

A nobody 
A person of no importance. “He wants to be somebody
important in this world, but he will always remain a nobody.” “A man who starts from the bottom in the world
and has become “somebody important” should never
forger what it feels like to be a nobody.” “She’s married
to a man who is beneath her station. He is a real nobody.” * 

A nose for it 
A person with an intuition that tells him where to find
something. “Someone with a sixth sense who knows
where to seek and find a thing he is looking for is said to
have a nose for it.” “I like playing the stock market. I
have a nose for it.” “Dealing in venture capital is a risky
business but my friend Guido has a nose for it.” *

A one way street 
Just as traffic may go only one way along a street, so we
may say in life that once you have made a certain choice
there’s no way of turning back. “A person thinks only
about himself and never about others is on a one way
street to loneliness.” “This addictive behavior of yours is
a one way street to a bad end.” “Choosing to have a vasectomy is a one way street.” *

A one-tracked mind 
Thinking only about one thing, such as sex. “You men
are all the same. You all think about only one thing.
You’ve got a one-tracked mind.” “People who are driven
by greed can be said to have a one tracked mind.” “A
person who is obsessed with achieving success in the fast
track may be said to have a one tracked mind.” *

A pack of lies 
Just as dogs come in packs, so one lie leads to another
until they become like a whole pack of lies; a string of
falsehoods and mistruths. “What Gabby said about her
coming from a noble background and a rich family was
just a pack of lies.” Don’t believe anything a man promises you. It’s all just a pack of lies to trick you into giving
him what he wants.” “The president had a whole string of
excuses for his lack of discretion but they were all a pack
of lies.” *

A piece of cake 
Something easy to do; not difficult to accomplish; a simple task; a snap; a breeze; child’s play. “Don’t worrying
about installing the software. Any fool could do it. It’s a
piece of cake.” “The safe-cracker had no problem opening the bank vault. For an old pro like him, it was a piece
of cake.” “You can be confident that I will be able to get
the governmental permissions. For someone with my
connections, it is a piece of cake.” *

A piece of my mind 
What you say when you become angry with someone and
tell him the reason why. “Wait until I see your father. I’m
going to give him a piece of my mind and tell him what I
think of his indiscreet behavior!” “I’m waiting until I see
Uncle Bob, and I’m really going to give him a piece of
my mind about the way he sold the house the moment
Aunt Sally died.” “My boss has given me a piece of his
mind about the way I have been making false promises to
prospective clients.” *

A poor little petunia in an onion patch
A, sensitive person (usually a woman) placed within a
group of rough, insensitive people where she feels out of
place. “Just as a sensitive flower, like a petunia, doesn’t 
belong in a garden-patch full of onions, so a young, innocent girl does not belong in an environment full of sexstarved, dirty old men.” “I don’t like working in an office full of nasty, offensive, aggressive litigation lawyers.
I feel like a poor little petunia in an onion patch.” “Being
the only female engineer on such a heavy-industrial construction site, full of foul-mouthed roughnecks, I feel like
a poor little petunia in an onion patch.” *

 A pox upon you! 
 A way of wishing something bad upon someone. “I wish
that you may be cursed with something like smallpox or
even rather worse.” “When we say ‘A pox upon you,’ we
mean we hope the person may be punished for his misdeeds by getting a case of syphilis.” “That was a low and
dirty trick you played on me to satisfy your personal
greed. A pox upon you! May you meet the punishment
you deserve.” *

A pretty nasty wallop 
A vicious thump; punch; whack; clout; belt. “My Mom is
normally really kind and patient, but once in a while,
when I go too far, she loses her temper and gives me a
pretty nasty wallop.” “The boy that I wrongly accused of
stealing my wallet was not amused, and he gave me a
pretty nasty wallop.” “My Teacher, Sister Theresa, although she seldom hits the children, packs a pretty nasty
wallop, so I wouldn’t mess with her if you know what’s
good for you.” *

A real dilly 
Someone who is remarkably stupid, foolish, and absurd
so people observe the strangeness in his behavior. “His
eccentric mother is such a real dilly that he’s ashamed to
take her out in public.” “They have assigned me a new
personal assistant, who is a real dilly! I’m sure he’ll be
more trouble than he is worth.” “My Aunt Claudia is a
real dilly. You never know what absurd thing she will
say or do next.” *

A real dynamo 
Just a an electric power dynamo generates energy, so a
person within a group may be the driving source of
power behind the success of a task or project, so we can
say the person is a real dynamo. “Maldonado used to be
the real dynamo and driving force behind his team’s success, before drugs and scandal reduced him to ruin.” “My
personal assistant, Sondra, is a real dynamo. She can supervise seven projects at one time and bring them to
completion within the designated due dates. “That man,
Anderson, is a real dynamo. He has single-handedly generated millions in local investments in stock-shares, and
he is bringing in an equal amount in foreign capital. He’s
a real dynamo” *

A real howler 
Just as dogs howl at the moon, so we may say that people
often sound as though they were howling with laughter at 
hearing a really good joke. “I love to tell jokes to the
guys in the bar, and I love the way they buy me drinks
when I tell a real howler.” “Every comedian is looking
for a real howler that will have them laughing in the
aisles at the end of his act.” “Mother always hates it
when Dad tells a real, dirty, low-down, nasty howler to
the other gentlemen over a glass of brandy after dinner.”*

A rotten egg 
Just as a rotten egg can cause all the good eggs in a basket to begin to spoil and go bad, so we often say that a
person who leads others into bad actions or behavior is a
rotten egg. “All of the kids in the class are well-behaved,
but I regret to say your son is a rotten egg who leads the
others into mischief.” “At the center of every neighborhood gang, there is always one rotten egg who leads the
others into committing cruel and evil deeds.” “Even a
jailhouse gang will always have its one most-rotten egg.”*

A rousing sendoff 
Bidding someone farewell with good wishes and a loud
round of applause. “Everyone, let’s please stand up and
give Mr. Perkins a hand of applause as a rousing sendoff
before he returns to the United Kingdom.” “There were
thousands of people along the road to the airport to give a
rousing sendoff to Manchester United as they were leaving to play in the World Cup Match.” “When I retired,
they gave me a gold watch and a rousing sendoff.” *

A run-in 
A conflict; disagreement; confrontation; quarrel. “I had a
run-in with my boss and I’m afraid it will affect his written-evaluation of me in the annual review.” “Jane had a
run-in with one of the other secretaries, and, now, they
are not on speaking terms.” “Our father has had a run-in
with my Uncle Bill about selling the old farmhouse on
the hill.” *

A shambles 
A state of disorder; deterioration; run-down; messy.
“When I first moved in here, the place was a total shambles, but after a lot of hard work and expense, I have
managed to make it look quite neat and tidy.” “There
used to be a pub in Manchester that was so old and rundown and dilapidated and looked like it was going to fall
down any minute, that people called it the Shambles.”
“When I went back to grandfather’s house twenty years
after his death I found the place was in a shambles.” *

A shame 
A pity. “It’s a shame that there are so many are starving
children around the world when the rest of us are overeating and getting fat.” “It’s a shame that the government
isn’t doing more to protect the environment.” “It’s a crying shame that terrorists will kill innocent women and
children just as a way of expressing their hatred.” * 

A sharp tongue 
A tongue that makes hurtful, sarcastic, cutting remarks.
“My mother had a sharp tongue, and my father hardly
ever said anything for fear she would cut him to bits.” “A
woman with a sharp tongue will have trouble keeping a
long-term relationship with a loved-one.” “A person with
a sharp tongue who says hurtful things to others sets a
series of events in action which will end in the cycle of
hurt eventually returning back to him again in the end.” *

A shiver went down my spine!
I could feel a tremble of cold fear running down the cartilage in my backbone. “I was so scared of seeing a ghost
in the old castle that a shiver went down my spine.”
“When I entered the haunted house and the door creaked,
a shiver went down my spine.” “I was so afraid in the
dark that a shiver went down my spine.” *

A shot in the arm 
Just as we get an injection from the doctor to help fight
or prevent disease, so we can get a shot in the arm from a
friend or business partner that helps us to deal with our
present problem. “When I feel sad, I always call my Dad
for encouragement, and he always gives me a shot in the
arm.” “We need a cash injection to give our political
campaign a much-needed shot in the arm.” “Our business
needs a shot in the arm in the form of cash investment.” *

A slap in the face 
An unexpected, undeserved act of disloyalty or rejection
or rebuff; a direct, deliberate insult; an act of thank-lessness. “After all the help I had given to Julia over the
years, it was a real slap in the face to see that she not
there to help me the one time I most needed her.” “It was
a real slap in the face when the company took the person
I had been training and placed him in my position.” “After all the effort I had put into the growing success of the
company, it was a real slap in the face when they hired a
younger newcomer at a lower salary to take my place.” *

A slap on the wrist 
A gentle reprimand for an oversight, mistake or misdeed;
a warning not to do the same thing again. “My boss gave
me a slap on the wrist for not proof reading my report
properly and said if it happened again I would be called
up on the carpet and severely scolded.” “The Dean has
given me a slap on the wrist for wearing tight, sexy jeans
to class. He says it is not appropriate” “A small fine for
submitting withholding tax late is just a slap on the wrist,
but repeat offenders find the penalties increase in proportion to the frequency of the offence.” *

A slow burn 
Becoming increasingly more-and-more angry, allowing
resentment to grow gradually to the point where it will
finally burst out into a fire of revenge or retaliation. “My
younger brother has been doing a slow burn for years
because of his resentment that the family was able to
send me to college before the financial crisis drove our 
father into bankruptcy.” “Sally has been doing a slow
burn for more than a year because her best girlfriend
stole her boyfriend.” “I am still doing a slow burn because I cannot accept the unfair way the company has
treated me.” *

A sly dog 
A cunning, clever, crafty, devious, underhanded person.
“You sly dog, you! Few people would have suspected
that I was cooking the books. How did you know?” “You
sly dog, you! How did you know that I would give anything to own an original Picasso painting, even if I knew
it was stolen?” “You sly dog, you! How did you know I
would sleep with you even though you knew perfectly
well that I was a married woman?” *

A sobering thought 
A serious thought that makes you feel less-optimistic and
positive, rather than more optimistic and cheerful; a worrisome idea that brings you down-to-earth and makes you
fearful of the future. “It’s a sobering thought to realize
that man is slowly but surly destroying the environment
that supports human life.” “It’s a sobering thought to realize that with fewer people being born who will pay into
old age pension funds, eventually, there will be too little
money for pensioners to receive any retirement benefits.”
“Imagining that our whole galaxy could be sucked into a
big, black hole is a sobering thought, indeed.” *

A stooge 
A dummy, laughing stock; someone who’s been made a
fool of; someone who had been taken advantage of; made
to look stupid by pulling the wool over their eyes. “I hate
it when all the other children try to make me look stupid
and laugh at me. I feel like such a stooge.” “In comedy
routines, often one guy appears to be the smart one and
the other one is made out to be a stooge and always has
to take the brunt of the joke.” “Someone had to be set up
to be the fall guy, and it was just my bad luck that they
chose me to be the stooge.” *

A storm in a teacup 
When people make a big fuss about nothing, we say it is
like a tempest in a teapot or a tea cup. “Don’t make such
a big fuss over a small lie. You’re creating a storm in a
teacup.” “When people who are small-minded and make
a really big deal out of a small problem, we say they are
making a storm in a teacup.” “Why the big fuss about
nothing? It’s a storm in a teacup.” *

A straw man 
A person who only exists legally on paper or in the
imagination to fulfill some need or purpose.” “I’m a
straw man in the contract, because they need someone
local to hold only a hundred shares to tip the balance of
local and foreign shareholders, so the company will appear fifty-one percent Thai-owned and forty-nine percent
foreign-owned.” “I had been hearing about Gaye’s boy-
friend for years before I ever saw him, and I was beginning to think that he was only a straw man.” “I tell my
family that I am going out of town to visit my old roommate Eldridge, but he is really only a straw man. He
doesn’t really in fact exist.” *

A subtle hint 
An understated or intimated-suggestion or implication.
“When we give someone a subtle hint, we do not tell him
directly and aggressively; we just drop a slight suggestion (hint) that will make him think about what we said.”
“When you want someone change his behavior, sometimes it is better to give him a subtle hint and let him figure it out himself, rather than state directly what is wrong
with him.” “When a girl does not want to receive a man’s
attention, it is often enough for her to give him a subtle
hint to make him go away.” *

A sycophant 
Someone who flatters and bows down to another to win
favor. “All those men in dark suits that you see going
into the boardroom are just a lot of sycophants who flatter the Chairman just to keep on his good side.” “You are
all just a bunch of sycophants and arse-kissers who will
do anything to keep from being fired.” “I have no respect
for sycophants because they have no respect for themselves.” *

A tangled-web 
Just as a spider spins a web in which to entangle his prey,
so a person may spin a tangled-web of lies in order to get
what he wants. “I never lie, because one lie leads to another and another and before you know it you are tied-up
in a tangled-web of deceit.” “Don’t trust that woman!
Everything she says is just a tangled-web of lies.” “When
we get tied-up in the tangled- web of self-delusion, it often takes careful surgical analysis to cut ourselves free.”*

A toss-up 
Even chance; fifty/fifty; could go one way or another; as
in the flip of a coin. “No one knows which team will win
the World’s Cup. Right now, it’s a toss-up.” “Love is a
risky business: it’s a toss-up between risking everything
and risking nothing.” “We don’t know whether to file for
bankruptcy or attempt to restructure our finances. It’s a
toss-up.” “Sometimes we are faced with a toss-up of just
plain having to guess at which is the better of two evils.”*

A turn for the worse 
Things have developed into a worse condition than before. “My health has suddenly taken a turn for the worse
and I am not expected to live longer than sixteen weeks.”
“Economic trends have taken a turn for the worse, and
investors are getting worried.” “Outbreaks of violence
have suddenly taken a turn for the worse and the planned
peace talks have been called off.” * 

A watched-pot never boils.
When you are waiting for a pot of water to come to a
boil, it seems to take forever. “When I used to get impatient while waiting for the water to boil so I could make
the tea, Grandmother would always say, ‘A watched-pot
never boils’” “When whatever you are waiting for makes
you feel stressed and impatient, remember the old adage
that a watched-pot never boils.” “Have you ever noticed
that when you are waiting for a pot of water to come to a
boil, so you can make spaghetti, it seems to take forever?
That’s why they say, ‘A watched-pot never boils’” *

A weight off my mind 
Release or freedom from a mental burden. “It’s a good
thing I got that check in the mail today. Now. I can pay
my bills. What a weight off my mind!” “I’m glad that I
have finally passed all the CPA exams. That’s a weight
off my mind. Now, my future is secured.” “At last, the
company is finally registered, and we have received a
VAT number. That’s a relief! What a weight off my
mind.” *

A whale of a time 
A whole lot of fun; a very big, exiting and pleasurable
experience. “We had a whale of a time at my bachelor
party; it was the most fun any of us had had in years.”
“The staff had a whale of a time at the office party and
drank one hundred bottles of champagne, but the next
morning most of them were not feeling so good.” “The
boys and I are planning to go out on the town Friday
night and have a whale of a time.” *

A wisecracker 
Someone who is always trying to make smart, clever,
witty or humorous remarks “Don’t try to be such a smart
Alec and wisecracker. No one thinks it’s clever or funny
to keep making smart-assed remarks.” “Trevor is always
making cynical wisecracks to show his resentment and
my get attention.” “When I was young, I was a real wisecracker, but when I realized that my smart remarks were
hurtful to others, I stopped being a wise guy and smartened up.” *

A word to the wise 
A bit of advice for those willing to gain from listening.
“Let me tell you a word for the wise: ‘Never stick your
nose into other’ people’s business.” “Someone who is in
a position to give a word to the wise will find few people
who will be ready to listen.” “Here is a word for the
wise: ‘Just because sixty-million other people do it
doesn’t make it right.’” *

A world of difference 
No comparison!; much different and better than before;
almost the total opposite. “Since I started meditating, I
have noticed a world of difference in my attitude.” “After
the new road was completed, it made a world of difference in the flow of traffic.” “Thanks for volunteering to
help the homeless and aged; for them a little bit of kind 
support makes a world of difference.” *

Abandon all hope 
Give up your last hope of getting what you want. “After
failing to pass the CPA exams for five years in a row, I
finally abandoned all hope of ever becoming a Certified
Public Accountant.” “After the cancer spread into
mother’s lymph system, the family abandoned all hope of
recovery.” “After twelve wasted-years, dreaming of becoming a movie star, Mandy abandoned all hope of a
successful Hollywood acting career.” *

Abandon ship 
Just as sailors abandon and leave a sinking ship, so we
may say that a person is about to abandon a business or a
cause when there is no hope of success. “When the firm
had posted annual losses of twenty million per year for
four years in a row, I decided to abandon ship.” “When I
realize we were headed for failure I decided to give up
the cause and to abandon ship.” “Come on you guys,
don’t abandon ship on me now, just because we are
meeting a few difficulties.” *

Aberrant behavior 
Abnormal, deviant, unusual behavior. “Aberrant behavior in Kindergarten pupils may be a sign of problems in
the home-environment.” “Aberrant behavior in situations
that demand conventional respect and adherence to certain social norms and manners may be a sign of mental
illness.” “Aberrant behavior in sexual matters is a sign of
uncontrolled-lusts and passions.” *

Abide by the rules 
Follow the regulations. “Abide by the rules and keep
you’re your nose clean, and you will keep out of trouble.” “The Dean cannot make a special exception in your
case because he must abide by the rules.” “In the dormitory, everyone must abide by the rules to avoid infringing
on the rights of others.” *

Abject despair 
Total and utter hopelessness that could not be worse.
“When I was second-year philosophy student, I lived in a
state of abject despair because I of the fear that I didn’t
really exist.” “Fear of nothingness used to put existential
philosophers into a state of abject despair.” “When I was
poor and penniless with no hope of success in the future,
I lived in a state of abject despair.” *

Able-and-ready 
Healthy, capable and prepared for action. “New York
City has a team of able-and-ready rescue workers who
are prepared to jump into action in case of a natural disaster.” “We need some able-and-ready volunteers to setup the chairs in the meeting hall.” “Just let me know
whenever you need my assistance, and I’ll be able-andready.” *

Able-bodied 
Strong, vigorous and healthy in body; able to do heavy
work “We need ten able-bodied men to load these bags
of cement on the truck. Do we have any volunteers?” “I 
am young, strong and able-bodied, and I am willing to do
any kind of hard work that will help finance my education.” “The Marine Corps is always looking to recruit
men, who are willing and able-bodied, to fight and die in
the service of their country.” *

Abominable behavior 
Highly offensive, despicable, repulsive, immoral actions
or deeds. “You should be ashamed of yourself. Pissing
out your bedroom window is abominable behavior.” “I
do say, Old Boy, the way you behaved in British Club
Bar last night was the worst example of abominable behavior that we have seen there in years.” “I would like to
excuse myself for my abominable behavior at the party
last week. I’m afraid I lost my temper and did and said
some things that even I myself find unforgivable.” *

Abortive action 
An act performed in order to stop something bad from
happening. “The police have taken abortive action to stop
the terrorists from taking over the airport.” “The American Marines were able to take abortive action to prevent
enemy forces from gaining entry into the Embassy compound.” “The Royal Guards are taking abortive action to
prevent a military coup.” *

About last night … 
When you sleep with someone without having intended
to, and you want to explain it in the morning, you may
say, “About last night, let me explain that I would never
have had sex with you, if I had been sober.” “Just to
make clear there that are no misunderstandings, about
last night, had I known that you were a married man, I
wouldn’t have agreed to a one night stand.” “About last
night, I am sorry that you think I took advantage of you. I
don’t know what got into me.” *

About-face 
Changing one’s opinion and doing the exact opposite;
change direction by one-hundred and eighty degrees.
“The government has done an about-face on raising VAT
to ten percent.” “The company has done an about-face on
mandatory attendance at all meetings because some of
the staff are being assigned to do work outside the office.” “The Commanding General made a total about face
on the policy of allowing women officers to wear face
make-up during duty hours.” *

Above all else 
The thing of most importance; the prime motivation.
“We should be striving, above all else, to make this
world a better place.” “What I expect, above all else, is
that people tell the truth.” “Above all else, management
should remember that the company is in business to
make a profit.” *

Above-board 
Clear and honest; with no deception; legitimate; in accordance with the law; transparent; free of corruption;
not done secretly under the table. “All of his business 
transactions have been above-board, and his integrity is
beyond question.” “We had better do this deal in an
above-board manner and not try to deceive the Revenue
Department.” “Government spending should be totally
above-board and transparent, if the principles of democracy are to be preserved and protected.” *

Above my head 
Too difficult for me to understand because of my lack
intelligence to follow the complex line of thought; on a
level above and beyond one’s comprehension. “Come
down to earth and say it in simple words: it’s above my
head.” I took a course in astrophysics once, but I must
admit that it was a little bit above my head.” “I did not
understand the theory of relativity that he was explaining
in his lecture. It was a little bit beyond me. In fact, it was
totally above my head.” *

Abrasive tone 
A rasping sound in someone’s voice-box that gets on
one’s nerves. “I cannot stand the sound of that woman’s
voice. It has such a rasping and abrasive tone.” “Don’t
use that abrasive tone when you are speaking to me, or I
will see that you are smiling on the other side of your
face.” “Do not speak to clients with an abrasive tone but
rather in a soft and gentle manner.” *

Abreast-of-the-situation 
Being aware of the latest information; knowing what is
going on, right now; keeping-up with things; staying upto-date. “Please keep our firm abreast-of-the-situation by
providing us with news of the latest announcements regarding tax regulations.” “Stock brokers must keepabreast-of- the-situation regarding fluctuations in oil
prices which affect stock prices.” “Stay in close touch
with me during your negotiations to keep me up-to-date
and abreast-of-the-situation.” *

Absence makes the heart grow fonder
When you don’t see someone you love for a long while,
you begin to care for him/her even more. “I missed you
all the while you were gone. Absence makes the heart
grow fonder.” “When Sally went off to college, I thought
I’d probably forget about her, but I found absence makes
the heart grow fonder, and I thought of her a lot.” “When
you miss someone, you think it’s because absence makes
the heart grow fonder, but the real truth is that you actually miss the good things they do for you.” *

Absent-minded 
Forgetful; can’t remember. i.e. where you put something;
can’t recall a thing you wanted to do; distracted, unfocused and confused in your thoughts, especially in old
age when the brain is not as sharp as it used to be.
“Grandfather is getting so absent-minded that he always
forgets where he has left his reading glasses.” “I’m sorry
I forgot to return your telephone call. I’ve been getting a
little absent-minded lately.” “Since I’ve been concentrat-
ing so hard on writing my doctoral thesis, I’ve become
quite absent-minded about the little things in life, like
remembering to check if the gate is closed or if the door
is locked.” *

Absolute astonishment 
Total amazement at the unexpected. “The family gazed
in absolute astonishment as they watched their mother’s
ghost descending down the staircase.” “The teacher
gazed in absolute astonishment as he saw his students
throwing their exam papers out the windows.” “The
prince stared in absolute astonishment as he watched the
beautiful princess turn into a frog right before his very
eyes!” *

Absolutely amazing! 
Totally unbelievable! “I still think it’s absolutely amazing the way they put a man on the moon.” “It’s absolutely amazing the way they can use DNA to solve a
murder that was committed twenty years ago.” “England
has finally won a cricket final against the Australians.
They haven’t beaten the Aussies in years! Absolutely
amazing!” *

Absolutely fantastic! 
Totally beyond one’s hopes and dreams. “Congratulations on winning the Gold Medal! That’s absolutely fantastic!” “It’s absolutely incredible! I have just won a
scholarship to Harvard university.” “It’s absolutely fantastic the way Tim Taylor has totally recovered from being paralyzed and can walk normally again.” *
Absolutely impossible! Cannot be possible. “It’s absolutely impossible to get
your father to change his mind. He’s too stubborn.”
“There is no way you can get me to tell a lie to earn a
dishonest dollar. Absolutely impossible!” “It’s absolutely
impossible for a person to have two independent and
separate thoughts in exactly the same instant.” *

Absolutely not! 
Definite refusal. “If you are asking me to lie for you, the
answer is, ‘Absolutely not!’” “According to Thai Culture
it is not correct for a woman to be alone in a room with a
strange man. It is absolutely not acceptable.” “There is
no way you can convince me to commit such a morally
improper act. No way! Absolutely not!” *

Absolved from guilt 
Pronounced innocent of all charges. “At the end of the
court hearing, the defendant was absolved from guilt by
the judge and jury.” “After a government inquiry, the
Prime Minister was absolved from any guilt in bribing of
public officials.” “Prof. Perkins was absolved from any
guilt of sexual harassment when the student in question
finally admitted she had lied to get revenge for the fact
that he had found her poetry mediocre.” *

Absorbed in thought 
Concentrated and thinking very deeply; thinking about
only one thing to the exclusion of all others; totally focused on one point. “I could not get Professor Einstein’s 
attention because he was so deeply absorbed in thought
that didn’t even hear me speaking to him.” “As Picasso
concentrated on his work, he was absolutely unaware of
the world around him; he was absolutely absorbed in
thought.” “The Zen master is absolutely absorbed in the
thought of one-pointed-ness when he meditates.” *

Abstain from 
Avoid acting in a certain way; refrain from doing a certain action; resist temptation to do something. “Abstain
from harsh speech to avoid the possibility of your words
doing harm to others.” “Abstain from sexual intercourse
with people who are married to others.” “Abstain from
drinking alcohol and avoid doing anything stupid that
you will be sorry for later.” *

Abuse of privileges 
Incorrect use of rights or benefits that go with a job or
position; abuse of authority: misuse of power or privileges for one’s own or other’s benefit. “People in high
positions are often granted high privileges as a sign of
honor, but abuse of such privilege and authority brings
shame and dishonor upon them.” “Military personnel
have privileges to buy tax-free tobacco and alcoholic
items, but sometimes they abuse these privileges by selling such goods on the black market.” “Well-behaved
prisoners are awarded certain privileges which they will
automatically lose if they are ever caught abusing such
privileges.” *

Accede to pressure 
Comply with the wishes of others; consent to do as others want you to; act as you are forced to do as other people want you to. “Never accede to peer-pressure to do
something you know is wrong.” “We often accede to social pressure and behave the way that others conventionally do.” “Never accede to pressure from business associates who try force you do commit a criminal action.” *
Acceptable behavior Acting according to the standards of society or group. “In
Thai culture, it is not acceptable behavior for an unmarried woman to meet an unmarried man anywhere where
they are alone together.” “In English culture, it is not acceptable behavior to spit on the pavement.” “There is
nowhere in the world where it is considered acceptable
behavior to perform a private sexual act in an open public place.” *

Accident-prone 
Habitually having accidents; one who is always accidentprone is likely to have a lot of accidents. “My sister,
Elma, is very accident-prone; she’s always breaking an
arm or a leg or a few ribs.” “I’ve stopped driving altogether in the city because I’m an accident-prone driver.”
 “I never go hiking in the mountains because I’m so accident prone. I’d be sure to fall off as cliff break a leg fall
off as cliff fall off as cliff and have to be lifted- out by 
helicopter.” *

Accident waiting to happen
A dangerous situation, that is a safety hazard, so that
sooner or later, an accident is certain to happen. “The
excessive pressure straining on those overhead suspension-lines is an accident waiting to happen.” “A Skyscraper that does not meet the governmental specifications regarding structural engineering regulations is an
accident waiting to happen.” “Sometimes we say that a
person who is over-sensitive and over-stressed is an accident waiting to happen.” *

Accidentally-on-purpose 
Something done on purpose, deliberately, but made to
look like an accident. “My husband lost the divorce papers, accidentally on purpose, so he wouldn’t have to
sign them” “James Bond dropped the glass of poisonedStrawberry Champagne, accidentally on purpose, so he
wouldn’t have to drink it.” “The society hostess bumped
into me accidentally on purpose and spilled her drink all
over my brand, new ten thousand Dollar designer dress.”*

Accommodate someone’s wishes
Do someone’s bidding; perform as asked; submit to a
person’s request. “Sometimes, you are forced to accommodate another person’s wishes whether you like it or
not.” “If you do not give in and accommodate my
wishes, I will see that you run into a lot of trouble.” “In
business, sometimes you have to learn to accommodate
someone’s wishes in order to get him to comply with
your own desires.” *

According to all accounts 
All those who tell the story say the same thing; all those
who are in-the-know agree. “According to all accounts,
president Kennedy had a lot of extra-marital affairs on
the side.” “According to all accounts, certain people in
the government are taking illegal pay-offs.” “According
to all accounts, the United States Government is concealing information about UFO’s.” *

Accurate account 
True relation of the facts of a story. “The movie you are
about to see is an accurate account, based upon the actual
facts of a true story.” “The witness swore before the
judge in court that his written statement was an accurate
account of the events leading up to the attack.” The recorded statement that I am about to make is an accurate
account of the actual facts of the fatal accident as I saw
it.” *

Ace an exam 
To do exceedingly well on an examination in a way that
is easy for you. “I aced the Math exam! It was really easy
for me. I’m sure I got an A+.” “I’ve studied day and
night all week, and I’m confident that I am going to ace
the exam!” “Geoffrey didn’t even study, and he still aced
the exam! I wish I had his brains!” * 

Ace up your sleeve 
Just as a gambler might cheat at cards by slipping a concealed-high card, like an ace, out of his shirt sleeve, so a
person in a difficult situation may be said to use a deceptive trick to get himself out of trouble. “We may all eventually end up in jail, but I’ve still got an ace up my sleeve
that may help us out of the jam.” “The CEO plans to
blame the cause of corporate corruption on me, but I still
have an ace up my sleeve because I have evidence of the
CFO’s secretly transferring funds to hidden accounts.”
“The Republicans will probably lose the next election,
but they still have an ace up their sleeve to play in order
to sexually slander their Democratic opponent.” *

Achieve the impossible 
Do what does not seem possible; achieve what appears to
be unachievable; accomplish what everyone thinks is not
possible. “I wish I could achieve the impossible and be
better than perfect.” “Don’t try to achieve the impossible,
or you’ll end-up disappointed.” “The Russians achieved
what seemed to be impossible by shooting the first space
capsule into orbit around the earth.” *

Achilles’ heel 
Just as the old, Greek hero, Achilles, had a vulnerable
point if injured by an arrow in the heel of his foot, so we
all may be said to have a vulnerable point if someone hits
us in that weak spot. “If someone mentions my unhappy
childhood, I become sensitive and vulnerable. It’s my
Achilles’ heel.” “Don’t mention the General’s son being
killed in action; it’s his Achilles’ heel.” “Everyone has an
Achilles heel; you just have to watch until you observe
his weak spot and then focus your attack on the point.” *

Acquainted-with 
To know someone. “I am acquainted-with several people
who are close to the Queen, but I am not personally acquainted with the Queen herself.” “I am acquainted-with
the former Bangkok Governor, but I do not know him
very well.” “I am acquainted-with the rules and regulations of the dormitory, but I do not always follow them.”*

Act of violence 
Hurtful, harmful hostile action. “Beating your wife is an
act of violence.” “People who have been severely abused
as children often commit acts of violence later on in life.”
“A monk who is well-centered in tranquility meditation
would never think of committing an act of violence.” *

Act on your own 
To do something all alone, without any help, based on
your own belief or conviction; not follow the crowd but
act individually; decide for yourself regardless of the
opinions of others.” “Acting all on her own, Mother
Theresa started an individual effort to help the poor and
the sick.” “No one had the guts to complain about unpaid
overtime, so Gilbert acted on his own and went directly
to the management” “Since Dave could get no financial 
support from his family, he acted on his own and
worked his way through school doing part time jobs.” *

Acting-alone 
To do a deed totally on your own without any outside
help or assistance. “If you go against company policy,
you will be acting on your own and be in breach of your
contract.” “Timothy told police that he was acting on his
own when he blew up city hall, when, in truth, he could
not have done it without accomplices.” “The general,
who walked into Spanish parliament carrying a machine
gun and threatening to take over the government, was
acting alone on his own, as an individual, without any
army behind him.” *

Acting-up 
Behaving badly; being naughty; hard to control; actingout frustrations. “When I was a boy in school, I had a bad
reputation amongst the teachers, because I was known
for always acting-up in class.” “Now that I look back on
my boyhood, I realize that I was only acting-up as a
negative way of getting attention.” “Acting-up as a child
in school is perhaps excusable, but when you reach the
age of maturity and are still acting-up, you need some
psychological counseling.” *

Actions speak louder than words
Doing a good deed is better than making a promise as yet
unfulfilled. “Watch what people do rather than listen to
what they say. Seeing is believing. Actions speak louder
than words.” “Don’t just stand there talking about the
problem, do something about it! Actions speak louder
than words!” “In a true lover’s love, actions speak louder
than words.” *

Adamant opinion 
Inflexible, obstinate attitude or view. “My Grandfather
was of the adamant opinion that women should be kept
barefoot and pregnant.” “General Lee was of the adamant
opinion that slaves should not be given their freedom.” “I
am still of the adamant opinion that I did nothing wrong
in blowing the whistle on government corruption.” *

Add fuel to the flames 
Just as one makes a fire burn more strongly by piling extra wood on the flames, so one can make a bad situation
worse by adding an extra provocations or complications
which make matters worse. “My girlfriend already
knows I cheated on her with her best friend, but if she
finds out that I did it with her sister too, it will just add
fuel to the flames.” “Telling my husband that in addition
to maxing out my credit card, I also overdrew our jointsavings account just added fuel to the flames” “Don’t tell
mother that I still disagree with her about breaking-up
with my husband. That will just add fuel to the flames.” *

Add insult to injury 
After hurting someone’s feelings once, then doing something even worse than you did before. “Telling Jude that
he was rude and that I only wanted to help him improve 
his manners only added insult to injury.” “Saying that I
wanted to help Sissy hide her weaknesses only added insult to injury.” “Telling the Prime Minister that he should
follow the party whip’s orders for his own good only
added insult to injury.” *

Addle-brained 
Stupid; confused; muddle-headed. “My brother Bill has
always been a little addle-brained, but we love him anyway.” “Old Aunt Gertrude became a bit addle-brained
after she turned ninety, but, otherwise, her health was
quite good.” “Our receptionist is a bit addle-brained, but
she is stylish and attractive and adds a touch of class to
the company image.” *

Ad-lib 
Impromptu speaking, without ant prior preparation, offthe-cuff. “When you don’t know what to say, just fake it.
Ad lib and say just whatever comes into your mind.”
“When I have not prepared my class, I just go in and do
it ad lib.” “Part of the interview consists in the candidate
being asked to speak ad lib on a topic chosen at random.”*

Admit defeat 
Concede victory to the opposing side; admit that you
have been beaten. “Even before all the votes were fullycounted, the runner-up candidate was forced to admit defeat because he was trailing by fifteen percent.” “Our
team was behind by seventy points when it began to rain,
so we had to call it off and admit defeat.” “Sometimes,
you must concede that you have failed and admit defeat
and start over again.” *

Admonish someone 
Give a warning or a reprimand to somebody. “My
mother always used to admonish Catherine for the open
and friendly way she associated with boys.” “Our auditor
has admonished me for the careless way I have been
keeping our financial records.” “Harry was severely admonished by the headmaster for framing his picture in a
toilet seat and hanging it in the main auditorium.” *

Adorable child 
Sweet; lovely; delightful child. “My niece is a sweet,
adorable, loveable child.” “You will just love my daughter! She’s such an adorable child.” “When you were
young, you were an adorable child, but, now, you’ve
turned-out to be a nasty, horrible beast!” *

Adrenalin rush 
A moment of high energy and power caused by a sudden
surge of adrenalin circulating through the body. “Skydivers get an adrenalin rush the moment they jump out of
the plane into the open air.” “I love the adrenalin rush I
get during the moments of free fall during Bungeejumping.” “When I am faced with extreme danger, I always get an adrenalin rush that provides me with the almost super-human power I need to deal with the situation.” * 
Adulterous behavior Sex outside of marriage. “If anybody ever finds out about
my adulterous behavior, I will be a ruined-man.” “Your
father says you should be admonished for your adulterous behavior.” “The President’s adulterous behavior has
caused the party to lose face.” *

Advance notice 
Provide information about a happening before it occurs.
“When there is to be a fire-drill in our office, the administration always gives us advance notice.” “Labor law requires that an employee be given advance notice before
termination of employment.” “If I want to terminate my
rental contract, I must give my landlord three months advance notice.” *

Advanced in years 
Getting-old; becoming quite old. “When Winston Churchill was advanced in years, he finally found time to
write his memoirs.” “I hope that when I become advanced in years that my mind will still be sharp and
clear.” “When the Pope was very advanced in years, he
no longer had the necessary physical energy to make frequent public appearances.” *

Advised that 
Means that someone has given advice or counsel to
somebody about something “Our in-house lawyer has
advised us that we at risk of being sued by the client for
damages.” “Our tax consultant has advised us that the
Revenue Department will impose a penalty for late payment of withholding-tax.” “My doctor has advised me
that I had better quit drinking alcohol to avoid the risk of
doing further damage to my liver.” *

Affable personality 
Pleasant, friendly, sociable, easy-going, likeable character. “The new ambassador, Sir Rodney, has a very affable
personality and is well-liked by the Embassy staff.” “Our
Aunt Bessie has an affable personality which makes it
easy for her to move about in high society.” “Arnold
Schwarzenegger had an affable personality despite his
Hollywood image of being a muscular exterminator.” *

Affirmative action 
Doing something in order to right a wrong; making a
demonstration to call for action to correct something seen
as incorrect or unfair. “Some anti-abortion-activists
blow-up abortion clinics as a demonstration of affirmative action.” “When we were students, as a demonstration of affirmative action against sexist university regulations, we had a sit-in in the Dean of Men’s office for four
days and nights.” “My former girlfriend, Ingrid, was such
a strong believer in affirmative action demanding
woman’s rights, that she appeared topless with ten other
women in a packed-opera house in Frankfurt as a form of
protest.” *

Afraid or your own shadow
Timid; scared of everything and everybody; frightened to
do or try anything; shy; hesitant; apprehensive; afraid of 
the slightest thing. “Tiny Tim was actually so shy and
timid that he was literally afraid of his own shadow. “As
a small child, Sarah was very apprehensive and withdrawn and people used to stay she was afraid of her own
shadow.” “There’s no way we can get Donald to go in
and confront the boss. Donald is so cowardly that he’s
even afraid of his own shadow.” *

After hours 
After normal pubs and restaurants close down at night,
usually after midnight. “There is a cool jazz club downtown that stays open after hours where the musicians
play until dawn.” “The IRA used to operate illegal pubs
in Northern Ireland where you could drink after hours.”
“If the Police find a beer-bar that is open after hours, in
Pattaya the owner will have to pay a severe fine.” *

After the party is over 
Just as after a party has ended and everyone has gone
home, and there is a lonely feeling, so we can say that
when period of pleasure is over, there is emotional emptiness. “After the party is over and all the guests are
gone, I often wake up in the morning on the front lawn.”
“You might think it is fun to go out drinking every night,
but, after a few years, after the party is finally over,
you’ll ask yourself what you have accomplished.” “One
day, after the party’s over, you’ll look back with an emotional hangover and wonder how long it will take you to
get over it and grow up.” *

After-the-event 
After an action has finished; seeing a mistake too late to
do anything about it. “Something you understand afterthe-event that helps you learn not to do it again is also
called ‘hindsight.’” “If you had enough foresight, you
would never need to feel regret after-the-event.” “It’s
usually too late to correct what you said wrong after-theevent.” *

Afterthoughts 
Regrets felt after the fact, too late to do anything about it;
or doubts making you want to change your mind. “I’m
having afterthoughts about why I got an abortion, but it’s
too late to change it now.” “Father says he is having afterthoughts about leaving me the house in his will, because he disapproves of my moral attitudes.” “I’m having
afterthoughts about my decision to study in the States
because of the high costs involved.” *

Against all odds 
Little chance; little likelihood; little probability. “It is
against all odds that I can live to be a hundred, but I’m
hoping for an exception.” “It is against all odds that a
meteor could fall from the sky and crush you in the middle of the street, but it could happen.” “Trying to fight
corruption is like struggling against all odds with no
chance of success.” *

Against my better- 
Means one should know better but that one it is going to 
judgment do it anyway. “It’s against my better judgment to lend
my brother money, but I’m going to do it anyway.” “I’ll
help invest in your company, although it is against my
better judgment.” “Even though it is against my better
judgment, I have decided to go back to my husband.” *

Against my principles 
In conflict with my moral values. “It is against my principles to make any action that is not based on good motives.” “It is against my principles to help anyone who is
not totally honest.” “It is against my principles to take
anything that is not freely given.” *

Against the current 
Just as one might have to struggle hard to swim against a
strong stream of water, so one might have trouble in trying to go against common opinion. “When the tide of affairs is flowing in the wrong direction, sometimes we
have no choice but to swim against the current” “Some
people go with the flow; some swim against the current.”
“In our firm, we have firm and strict policies, and it does
little good to try to swim against the current.” *

Against the grain 
Just as the hand runs over the grain in the surface of
wood, moving smoothly going one way but moving
roughly back the other, so we can say it is difficult for a
man to go against the grain when we mean his opposing
public opinion or power or authority. “Don’t try and go
against the grain of cultural opinion or you’ll just have
rough time.” “It does no good to go against the grain
when it comes to power politics.” “In dealing with tax
authorities, do whatever they ask and don’t go against the
grain or they will cause you financial pain.” *

Against the law 
Contrary to the law of the land. “It is against the law to
steal the property of others.” “Driving through a red light
is against the law.” “Just because something is against
the law doesn’t mean people are not going to do it.” *

Against the stream 
Opposite to the natural flow. “The Buddha goes against
the stream.” “Swimming against the current and struggling against the stream is difficult in the extreme.” “In
society those who want to go against the stream will find
it more difficult than it may at first seem.” *

Age of consent 
Normally, at the age of sixteen, eighteen or twenty-one a
person has reached the age to make his own legal decisions as a consenting adult. “Once you have reached the
age of consent, you are free to make your own decisions.” “The downside of reaching the age of consent is
that you also become eligible for military duty.” “In
some states the age of consent for consensual sex is sixteen.” *

Aggressive attitude 
Active; assertive; forceful; forward. “In sales and marketing, you have to have an aggressive attitude, or you
won’t meet budget.” “The new sales manager has a very 
aggressive attitude which may help him increase sales
but it will also make him unpopular with the staff.”
“Many northern Europeans appear to have an aggressive
attitude, as though they’re always looking for a fight, and
we think they should learn to be a bit less-pushy.” *

Agreeable nature 
Easy to get along with. “My sister, Maude, has an agreeable nature. She can get along with anybody.” “Some
people are born with an agreeable nature, and some are
born with an aggressive nature.” “I want to marry a
woman with an agreeable nature with whom I can love a
long and harmonious life.” *

Ahead of time 
Before the set time, date or deadline. “With any luck, I
will have the report completed ahead of time and be able
to submit it before the due date.” “We have managed to
complete the project two days ahead of time.” “Whenever I have a business appointment, I always try to arrive
a little ahead of time.” *

Ahead of his times 
Too advanced in his thinking for the people of his own
period or era to understand and accept. “Christopher Columbus was ahead of his times when he said the earth
was round instead of flat.” “Galileo was far ahead of his
times when he said the earth revolved around the sun.”
“The Pre-Socratic philosophers were away ahead of their
times when they suggested everything consisted of atoms.” *

Aid-and-abet 
Conspire with; collude; connive; help and encourage
someone to do something wrong. “My big brother used
to aid-and-abet me to steal candy from the convenience
store.” “The police have accused me of aiding-and- abetting my cousin in committing a crime.” “The penalty for
aiding-and-abetting a traitor to upset and overtake the
government is life imprisonment.” *

Aimed-at 
With the goal or purpose of assisting, planning or achieving a scheme. “This new advertising campaign is aimedat developing the teenage market base.” “The new government education plan is aimed at providing free education for all citizens.” “The hospital’s new policy is aimed
at providing quick medical treatment for all patients.” *

Air of pretension 
Pretending to be or trying to appear to be better than you
really are. “I hate the way the Ambassador’s wife always
puts on an air of pretension at public functions. Who
does she think she is anyway?” “Anyone who puts on an
air of pretension is pretending to himself and others that
he is better than he is.” “You’d better drop that air of pretension before someone gets annoyed and kicks your
butt.” *

Air your opinion 
Say openly what you think. “On radio talk shows, people
like to call up and air their opinions.” “I would like eve-
ryone here to air his opinion about the grievance before
we begin to mediate a solution.” “Never air your opinion
in front of the chairman of the board unless it agrees exactly with his own.” *

Alarmist tactics 
To use the strategy of making people afraid in order to
provoke them into performing certain actions. “When the
President wanted to start a war to drive up oil prices, he
used alarmist tactics to make people fear terrorist attacks.” “When a company uses alarmist tactics to pressure staff members into increasing performance for fear
of losing their jobs, the long-term effect is harmful to
everyone concerned.” “Christian missionaries should not
use alarmist tactics to frighten people into changing their
religion by making them afraid of burning in the fires of
hell .” *

Alert the public 
Give the general population advance notice of approaching danger. “The government weather bureau now has a
system in place to alert the public in advance of coastal
hurricanes.” “The Present has alerted the public that a
giant meteor is heading on a direct collision course with
earth.” “The police have alerted the general public to be
on the lookout for and escaped convict wearing a black
and white-striped prison uniform.” *

Alive and kicking 
Just as we can see that a newly-born baby is alive and
kicking, so we can say that an old man or woman is still
alive and kicking if he/she is not dead yet. .” “I’ll still be
alive and kicking when you are six feet under the
ground.” “Everyone thought Elvis was long since dead,
when, suddenly, he turned up in Memphis, still alive and
kicking.” “I had lost contact with my mother for many
years and assumed she had long since died, when, one
day, she appeared before my door, still alive and kicking.” *

All able-bodied men 
All men who are strong and able to do heavy work. “The
community has asked all able-bodied men to volunteer to
help fight the fire.” “The problem with owning an ocean
racing yacht is that you need at least five able-bodied
men to man the sails in heavy weather.” “The dockyard
superintendent is looking for able-bodied men to help
unload cargo from the ships.” *

All boils down to 
In the final analysis; to put it simply; in a few words. “A
lot has been said about corruption, but what it all boils
down to is the simple fact that man ungoverned by law is
selfish by nature.” “There has been a lot of discussion
about whether a husband can be trusted, but what it all
boils down to in the end is whether he can resist temptation or not.” “We hear a lot of loose talk about how a
moving and healthy economy is good for the nation, but 
what it all boils down to is finding a fast way for everybody to make an easy buck.” *

All brawn and no brain 
Big and strong and muscular but not very intelligent.
“College girls like to date football players, but the problem is that athletes are sometimes all brawn and no
brain.” “Arnold looks like he is all brawn and no brain,
but, actually, he is pretty smart.” “It is a form of sexual
discrimination to say that big, strong men are all brawn
and no brain.” *

All by myself 
Alone; independent; on your own. “Don’t give me any
advice. I want to solve this problem all by myself.” “I
built this sailing yacht all by myself, without any help
from anybody.” “Nobody helped me get an education I
had to pay my way through school, all by myself.” *

All dolled-up 
A girl who is ‘all dolled-up’ has done her best to make
herself look as pretty as a doll; wearing her best dress,
gown and jewelry and made-up to look beautiful,. “Mom
used to get all dolled-up to go out to social evenings in
the local pub on Saturday nights.” “My sister doesn’t
look very attractive in everyday clothing, without her
make-up, but when she gets all dolled-up to go out with
her boyfriend, she looks really smashing.” “We got
grandmother all dolled-up and took her out to dinner on
her eightieth birthday.” *

 All ears 
 Ready to listen; eager to hear what you have to say; to
listen to your excuse; anxious to know how you are going to answer. “Can you explain how my wristwatch got
into your pocket? I’m all ears.” “Tell me your excuse for
all the mischief you have caused. I’m all ears.” “Can you
explain how a good boy like you was caught peeping into
the girl’s locker room? I’m all ears.” *

All fingers and thumbs 
Clumsy; always dropping things. “Things are always
slipping out of my hands and falling to the ground. I’m
all fingers and thumbs.” “The nurse has to give me my
medicine. I usually drop the tablets if I try to handle them
by myself. I’m all fingers and thumbs, you know.” “I
have poor manual dexterity. I’m all fingers and thumbs.”*

All Greek to me 
Just as a person who has not been trained in ancient,
classical Greek will not be able to read and understand it,
so, when we hear any academic explanation that is above
our head or level of education or intelligence, we can
say, ‘It’s all Greek to me.’ “I tried taking a course in
geophysics, but it was all Greek to me.” ‘The theory of
relativity is beyond me. It’s all Greek to me.” “I could
never understand the ideas of being and nothingness in
phenomenology. It’s all Greek to me.” *

All in a day’s work 
What is expected of you in the performance of your daily 
routine in your job. “Today I killed three men, blew up
two buildings and shot down one helicopter. For a special forces military agent, like me, it’s all in a days’
work.” “Yesterday, I filed six reports, went to seven
meetings and closed eight accounts, all in a day’s work.”
“A local police officer is expected to face and fight violence and aggression wherever it arises all in a day’s
work.” *

All in one piece 
Uninjured; unharmed; undamaged. “Luckily, Dad was
not blown to bits in the war and returned home all in one
piece.” “The press and media will tear your reputation
apart if your character is not absolutely spotless, but if
they are unable to find any scandal, they will leave you
all in one piece.” “Any other man would have been torn
apart by so many political pressures pulling from so
many sides, but the Prime Minister proved resistant to
any and all attacks and managed to remain in tact, unharmed and all in one piece.” *

All in your mind 
All in your head; illusory; imaginary. “If you think that
everybody is out to get you, it’s probably all in your
mind.” “You may think our relationship goes beyond
friendship, but if you imagine I love you, it’s all in your
mind.” “I am convinced that every man wants to rape
me, but my psychiatrist says it is all in my mind.” *

All on your own 
Alone; with no one to care for you; solitary and isolated.
“It’s hard to sail solo around the world, all on your own,
with no one to help you.” “When the other four astronauts leave you alone in the space station and return to
earth, you will have to man it all on your own.” “How
does it feel to be all alone, all on your own now that the
rest of your family has gone and deserted you?” *

All out-of-steam 
Just as the old train locomotive engines used to run on
steam power, so, when we are all tired-out and lacking
energy, we can say we are all out-of-steam. “Please, let
me sit down and take a break for a minute. I’m all outof-steam from lifting those big steel beams.” “By the
time grandfather has climbed up the stairs to his bedroom, he is all out-of-steam.” “After playing hard
throughout the game and, then, for another thirty minutes
of overtime, the team was all out of steam.” *

All set to go 
Prepared and ready to begin. “I’ve bought my ticket and
packed my bags and I’m all set to go on my holidays.”
“We’ve made all the necessary preparations for the voyage and we’re all set to go.” “The company has been
properly registered. The capital investment has been put
in place, and the business is all set to go.” *

All steamed-up 
Just as a steam engine is fed with fuel to worked-up to
the necessary level to produce full steam power, so one 
may become emotionally-exited and worked-up; quite
angry and ready for a fight or quarrel. “I sometimes get
all steamed-up when people hurt my feelings, because I
cannot control my emotions.” “Don’t get all steamed-up
and lose control at the meeting, or you’ll be sorry for
your actions later.” “My wife is all steamed-up and bent
out of shape because I bought myself a new car without
asking her.” *

All talk and no action 
People who talk a lot but do nothing are said to be ‘all
talk and no action.’ “Never marry a man who is all talk
and no action.” “I wouldn’t vote for a politician who is
all talk and no action.” “A man who is all talk and no action is a total waste of time.” *

All the difference in the world
No comparison; totally different. “Being able to drive my
own car as opposed to taking the bus has made all the
difference in the world.” “Putting air conditioning in the
office has made all the difference in the world by improving the working environment.” “Replacing desk calculators with computers made all the difference in the
world to the accounting profession.” *

All the rage 
The latest fad or craze; a thing everyone is doing; a fashion thing that is in vogue. “Ten years ago, wearing miniskirts was all the rage.” “I can remember when it was all
the rage to dye your hair pink or purple or green.” “At
the time of the Hippies, wearing long hair and beads was
all the rage.” *

All the time in the world 
Taking time to do something as if there were no need to
hurry. “He just takes his time and lets us wait as though
we have all the time in the world.” “You’d better start
thinking about what you are going to do about your future. You haven’t got all the time in the world, you
know.” “Take your time. There’s no rush. I’ve got all the
time in the world.” *

All washed-up 
Ruined with no hope of recovery; having lost everything;
financially finished; reaching the end of his career; with
no chance to start again; no hope of return to fame or fortune; no longer known or important. “After Vince had
lost his last million gambling in Las Vegas, he was all
washed-up. That’s the price he paid for being a compulsive gambler.” “Randolph Hurst was one of the most
wealthy and highly respected men in California, but after
a series of setbacks, he lost his financial empire and was
all washed-up.” Sally Sawyer was the Hollywood sweetheart of the thirties, but after she got addicted to pills and
alcohol, within five years, she was all washed-up.” *

All wrapped-up 
Been decided upon; come to a conclusion; signed, sealed
and delivered; a done deal; client is ready to sign an
agreement; task is finished; work has been completed. 
“Negotiations have come to a conclusion, a memorandum of agreement has been signed, and the deal is all
wrapped-up.” “I’m so pleased and happy that the client
has agreed to our terms, and it’s a done deal. It’s all
wrapped up.” “All the phases of the plan have been
wrapped-up, and the project has reached completion.” *

All-out-effort 
Try your maximum-best; do your utmost; struggle as
hard as you can; make your best attempt. “If you want to
be the very best in your field, you have to have natural
talent and make an all-out-effort to attain your goal.”
“Our party wants to win the election, and we are going to
make an-all-out effort to win the popular vote.” “The
government has decided to make an all-out-effort to stem
the spread of AIDS.” *

Allow nature to take its course
Let the natural flow of nature continue to the finish.
“When you know you are going to die, it is better to let
nature take its course.” “Dad has terminal cancer and all
treatments have failed so we have no choice but to let
nature take its course.” “However much we may try to
manipulate the environment for our own purposes, the
effects will only be temporary, and, in the end, nature to
take its own course.” *

Almost there 
Near to reaching the goal; near the end; near completion.
“Don’t give up yet. If you can keep climbing for another
five minutes, we will have reached the top of the mountain. We’re almost there.” “I haven’t got my weight
down to sixty-five kilos yet, but at sixty-five point six, I
am almost there.” “I haven’t made a million yet, but I’m
almost there. By the end of the next quarter, I’ll be a millionaire.” *

Along the beaten track 
Following along the same path in life that everybody else
takes. “I don’t want to follow along the beaten track. I
want to do something different.” “Sometimes, it is better
to follow along the beaten track, and do the same things
everybody else does, rather than stray off and find yourself lost and alone.” “If you play it safe and follow along
the beaten track, you’re unlikely to be faced with risk or
attack.” *

Along the way In the course of events of life. “I used to be quite selfish,
but somewhere along the way, I learned it was better to
give than receive.” “I learned a lot, along the way as, I
was growing-up the hard way, learning to deal with the
difficulties and perplexities of life.” “Somewhere along
the way in life, you will realize where you have been going wrong and start doing things right for a change.” *

Always have a good word for everybody.
Always speak well of other people, in an encouraging
way. “I try to say kind things and always have a good
word for everybody.” “I have tried to train myself to 
never speak harshly and always to have a kind word for
everybody.” “A good teacher knows how to maintain a
balance between giving constructive criticism on the one
hand and having a kind word for everybody on the
other.” *

Always interested! 
Ready to jump at the chance when the opportunity arises.
“If you want to ask me for a date, I am always interested!” “I’m always interested in hearing about any new
investment plans that are sure to make me money.” “If
you hear about any cheap land for sale in the city center,
I am always interested!” *

Always on the go 
Never stopping; active all the time; full of energy; always
busy; never in one place for very long; going from one
event to another; socially very active. “My Aunt Lily is
always on the go, flitting from one social event or occasion to another.” “The secret to my success is that I’m
always on the go, never losing sight of my goal and
working every waking-minute, all day, every day.” “Darlene is always on the go, starting with jogging in the
morning, studying hard at school all day, attending
drama rehearsals after class, and taking extra math lessons, as well as ballet and piano classes in the evening.”*

Ambivalent attitude 
Unsure; uncertain; not sure; undecided one way or the
other; not quite sure which is better; which way to go. “I
have always had an ambivalent attitude towards the luxurious life because I can take it or leave it.” “I do not like
or dislike the President. I couldn’t care less one way or
the other. I have an ambivalent attitude.” “I cannot say if
it’s better to study abroad or in Thailand. There are pro’s
and con’s to each side. I’m not sure one way or the other,
so I have an ambivalent attitude regarding that question.”*

Amble along 
Stroll and wander along your way. “Well, it’s getting
late, so I guess I’ll just amble along on my way home.”
“The party’s over and everybody’s gone, so I guess I’ll
just amble along as well.” “Old Spike Jones is often seen
ambling aimlessly around town with no particular destination in mind.” *

Amiable attitude 
Likeable; easy to get along with; agreeable. “My Aunt
Amy is good-natured and friendly. She has an amiable
attitude.” “My brother-in-law, Stan, has an amiable attitude. He is the sort of fellow who is easy to get along
with.” “Ken Harman is a likeable chap, with an amiable
attitude, who always has a kind word for everyone.” *

Amounts to nothing 
Not important. “Why make a big deal out of a bigsounding job title when really it amounts to nothing?”
“Sometimes, we let a small thing become a big thing, 
when really it amounts to nothing.” “Sometimes we
worry and make a big fuss about an imagined injury
when it actually amounts to nothing” *

An abysmal failure 
A terrible failure that could hardly be worse. “The government’s attempt to negotiate with the rebel faction was
an abysmal failure.” “The United Nations has spent billions and billions of dollars trying to help African nations
learn to help themselves, but to date all UN efforts have
been an abysmal failure.” “We have been trying to stop
local corruption for decades, but so far our efforts have
been an abysmal failure.” *

An airhead 
Someone who seems empty-headed; with no brain; nothing in the head; too dumb and foolish to be taken seriously. “Silly Sally is an airhead. There seems to be nothing in her skull but empty air.” “I’m such an airhead! I
never know exactly what is going on or what I am going
to do next.” “You airhead! Look at what you have gone
and done now! You have ruined everything by simply
not thinking.” *

An auspicious occasion 
An important; favorable; lucky; promising happening.
“Being born on a full-moon day is an auspicious occasion.” “The celebration of the King’s sixtieth birthday
was an auspicious occasion.” “The re-opening of the
Royal Art Museum, a hundred years after the death of
Queen Catherine, was an auspicious occasion.” *

An easy mark 
Someone who stands out as being a person to be easily
deceived and cheated. “Rich, old, tourist women are easy
marks for unscrupulous gem dealers who want to sell
fake jewels for high prices.” “When people see a foreigner in the street, they think he is an easy mark who
can be fooled into giving them money.” “An old man,
with a bankroll of money, who likes to drink, looks like
an easy mark for a woman of the night who is out to get
his money.” *

An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth
You hurt me, I hurt you, to the same degree, in the same
way, no more no less; take revenge by exacting the same
degree of damage from another as you have suffered
from him; for example, if you kill my brother, I will kill
your brother for revenge. “In the old days, people revenged themselves by inflicting exactly the same damage
on the other as had been done to them: an aye for an eye
and a tooth for a tooth.” “Nowadays, the rule of law
would not allow us to take revenge by exacting an eye
for an eye or a tooth for a tooth.” “Today, it may seem
vengeful to pay someone back by demanding an eye for
an eye and a tooth for a tooth, but in ancient times, revenge was often much harsher; for example, you kill my
brother, I kill everyone in your family.” * 

An inopportune moment 
An inconvenient, ill-timed, awkward moment. “Press
photographers caught him on film in an inopportune
moment with his trousers down.” “Excuse me, Sir, I hope
I’m not disturbing you at an inopportune moment, but
your wife is on the phone, and she wants to know if you
are coming home to dinner.” “Sir. I hope I have not disturbed you at an inopportune moment, but I must ask you
immediately if you plan to cancel today’s Board Meeting.” *

An invasion of privacy 
Looking into people’s personal and private actions and
affairs when it is none of your business. “Being a peeping Tom is an invasion of privacy,” “Prying into a person’s private matters to find out things that ought to be
kept secret is an invasion of privacy.” “Intruding into
someone’s personal and private sphere to discover secret
relationships and intimate dealings is an invasion of privacy.” *

An old battle-axe 
An aggressive, old woman who fights to win. “In high
school, I had an old battle-axe of a French teacher, who
was called Miss Jenny Foxworthy who used to hit us
with a cane. I didn’t learn much French, but I learned to
endure pain.” “My wife is such an old battle-axe that
when I go out and get drunk, I am afraid to go home
again.” “The Chairman’s secretary is a real, old battleaxe who has been with him for fifteen years, and if you
want something from him, you’ll have to get past her
first.” *

An old codger 
An old geezer; a difficult, bad-tempered old man who
lives on his own and who is usually hard to please. “Old
Roger is a mean old codger who lives in a world of his
own.” “There was an old codger who lived with his dog
in a house on top of the hill, and when he died, he left
everything to his dog in his will.” “I am afraid that one
day I will be a lonely old codger, with no one to take care
of or look after me.” *

An old windbag 
Someone who talks too much and doesn’t want to stop.
“Your grandfather is nothing but and old windbag who
never stops talking. Can’t someone to shut him up?”
“Shut up you old windbag. You’re full of hot air. You
talk just to hear the sound of your own voice.” “There’s
nothing worse than an old windbag who takes the floor
and goes on and on talking about nothing.” *

An open book 
Someone with an open heart, so we know everything he
is feeling and thinking. “People can read my feelings as
if I were an open book.” “Barbie is an open book. You
can tell what she is feeling just by looking into her face.”
“I’m an open book. People can tell exactly what I am
feeling even when I don’t say a word.” * 

An outrage 
A crying shame; a monstrous injustice. “It’s an outrage
the way so many innocent bystanders are dying in random terrorist attacks” “It’s an outrage that the government turns a blind eye to officials taking bribes.” “It’s an
outrage the way the United Nations just stood by and allowed the genocide of hundreds of thousands of people
in Africa.” *

Anonymous tip 
Information given by an unknown source about something that is as yet unknown or has not yet happened.
“The press was given an anonymous tip by informed
sources that the President would not be running for a
second term.” “My stock broker says that he has been
given an anonymous tip that stock prices are about to rise
dramatically.” “Father has just won a lot of money from
a bet he made based on an anonymous tip he heard being
discussed by some bookie in a bar somewhere.” *

Answer for something 
Take responsibility for. “What ever you do, you must be
able to answer for your actions.” “If anything goes wrong
on board a ship, the Captain is the one who must ultimately answer for it.” “If anything goes wrong with the
structural engineering, you, as project manager, are the
one who will have to answer for it.” *

Ants in your pants 
Restless; antsy; cannot keep still one moment. “What’s
wrong with you? Can’t you sit still even for a moment?
Have you got ants in your pants?” “My sister Sally has
got ants in her pants. She can’t sit still for five minutes.”
“I can never stay in any one place for any length of time.
I must have ants in my pants.” *

Any day now 
Coming soon; expected to arrive or happen within the
next few days. “I ordered three packages to be sent by
sea mail, and they should be arriving any day now.”
“Mother is going to give birth to her third child any day
now.” “We are expecting news, any day now, that I have
passed the entrance exam.” *

Any port in a storm 
Just as a ship must seek the safety of any port in a storm,
so a person may have to turn to anyone available when
he is in trouble and needs help. “To find refuge from the
northwesterly winds, we had to moor our yacht in Monte
Carlo harbor which is open to the sea and not totally safe,
but, we were happy to find any port in a storm.” “It’s not
good to ask a corrupt politician to help you avoid bankruptcy, but, as the saying goes, ‘any port in a storm.’” “I
had no one to turn to and no place to go, so I went back
to my deceitful, lying, thieving ex-husband. It was a case
of any port in a storm.” *

Anybody’s guess 
Nobody knows; it is uncertain; your guess is as good as
mine. “Nobody knows how soon the world will end. It’s
anybody’s guess.” “Nobody knows when stock prices 
will bottom-out. It’s anybody’s guess.” “We are not sure
how long the world’s oil resources will last, it’s anybody’s guess.” *

Anyone in his right mind 
Any normal, sane, sensible person. “Our need to protect
the environment is based on just plain common sense that
anyone in his right mind can see.” “Anyone in his right
mind would agree that we need to develop solar power
energy resources as an alternative to consuming coal and
oil.” “Anyone in his right mind would agree that drinking
a bottle of whiskey a day it is going to damage your
health, sooner or later.” *

Anyone who is anybody 
Everybody who is important and well-known in society.
“The New Years’ Eve Ball will be the grandest social
occasion of the year, and anyone who is anybody will be
there.” “The President will be sworn in on Sunday morning, and anybody who is anybody has been invited.”
“The statement, ‘Anyone who is anybody needs to have a
Rolex watch.’ is the stupidest thing I have ever heard.” *

Anything’s possible 
There’s no certainty; anything can happen. “There’s no
certainty that my unborn daughter will become Miss Universe, but anything is possible.” “I’m not sure if I will
ever become a millionaire, but anything is possible.” “No
one knows for sure if we will discover life in outer space,
but anything is possible.” *

Ape someone’s behavior 
Just as we might imitate an ape by making ape-like
movements and gestures, so we may imitate someone by
making actions similar to his. “We often ape people’s
behavior with the intention of making an impression to
illustrate what he is doing wrong.” “Often, when we ape
someone’s behavior, we want to ridicule or make fun of
him by acting exactly like him.” “If you ape you boss’s
behavior in the office, and he sees you doing it, that
might not be so good for you.” *

Appearances can be deceiving
Things are not always what they appear to be. “Something that looks good on the outside may not be so good
on the inside. Appearances can be deceiving.” “Never
trust a person just because he smiles and talks nicely.
Appearances can be deceiving.” “His business appears to
be prospering, but I think I’ll read his annual audit report
just to be sure I can trust him. Appearances can be deceiving.” *

Apple pie order 
In perfect condition; very neat and tidy; exactly as it
should be. “I want to have a wife who doesn’t work and
stays at home and keeps things in apple pie order.”
“When I arrive with the guests on Saturday night, I want
to see everything neat and clean and in apple pie order!”
“Everything in the barracks is in apple pie order, ready
for the General’s Inspection.” * 

Arbitrary decision 
Random, illogical choice or ruling. “When you may just
as well choose one way or another, for no apparent reason, this is called making an arbitrary decision.” “Management has made what appears to be the arbitrary decision to hire a few foreign trainees.” “For no apparent reason, the judge made the arbitrary decision to reschedule
the court hearing for the following Monday morning.” *

Ardent admirer 
Strong, dedicated, devoted admirer; someone who looks
up to and respects another person very much. “My father
is an ardent admirer of the King, and tries to follow his
advice as often as he can.” “Jack is an ardent admirer of
the Prime Minister and is following him as his role
model.” “Jane is an ardent admirer of her Accounting
Professor. She admires her Professor very much.” *

Arduous task 
A job that is difficult in the extreme; a laborious and demanding. “It was an arduous task to clear away the debris
at ground zero after the World Trade Center Terrorist
attack.” “The Prime Minister realizes it will be an arduous task for the government to rebuild the superstructure
destroyed in the Tsunami disaster.” “The United Nations
has the arduous task of trying to feed millions of undernourished and starving people all around the world.” *

Argue the point 
Debate the issue; disagree with a point of view; question
a point in an argument; claim the opposite to be true.
“Excuse me! If I may argue the point, I disagree that
there is no problem in teenage girls sitting around in
nightclubs and sipping cocktails.” “You may claim that
there is no risk involved in the investment, but, if I may
argue the point, ‘How do we know we can trust our joint
venture partner to comply with all the terms of the contract.’” “Everyone says it is better to study for your Master’s abroad, but, if I may argue the point, I would like to
suggest it could also a benefit to remain in Bangkok
within the close protection of the family circle.” *

Arm and a leg 
An extremely high price to pay. “Just as we value our
own lives and limbs very highly, so, when we have to
pay a high price, we compare it to being forced to give an
arm and a leg.” “My trip to London was very expensive;
it cost me an arm and a leg.” “I’m not going to pay those
five star hotel prices any more. They charge you an arm
and a leg.” *

Armed and dangerous 
Carrying a weapon and likely to use it to harm and kill
others. “The TV showed the live report of a man who
was armed and dangerous and holding twenty school
children hostage in the local school.” “Be careful to
avoid contact with members of motorcycle gangs. They
are often armed and dangerous.” “There has just been a
radio report saying that there is an armed and dangerous escaped convict loose in town who is being sought by
police.” *

Armed to the teeth 
Heavily armed, as if carrying weapons all over the body,
with even a knife between the teeth. “Ten terrorists entered the aircraft, armed to the teeth, and took the pilot
and the passengers hostage.” “There are said to be dangerous guerilla forces, armed to the teeth, just waiting in
readiness to make cross-border attacks.” “An ex-convict
entered the bank, armed to the teeth, and said he would
kill everybody on the spot if the manager didn’t give him
one million dollars within three minutes.” *

Arm-twisting 
Just as a big kid might twist a small kid’s arm, up behind
his back, to force him into doing something the little kid
didn’t want to do, so, often, we may say we will do some
‘arm-twisting’ when we apply pressure on someone to
get him to do something the way we want. “It won’t be
easy to convince the committee to re-hire you, but with a
bit of arm-twisting, I think it can be done.” “It will take
some arm-twisting to get everyone in the working group
to give in to your demands.” “I won’t be easy to implement my plan, and I’m going to have to do some armtwisting to get people to cooperate with me.” *
Around the back At the back, on the back side of the house or building
where no one will see you. “Meet me around the back of
the school at eight tonight, and I’ll sell you a bag of hashish.” “Lenny and Max met around the back of the gym
and had a bloody, knock-down fist-fight there.” “Meet
me around the back of the bar in about ten minutes, and
I’ll give you a woman for the night.” *

Around the bend 
Gone mad; turned-crazy; become mentally abnormal.
“My dear Holmes, I do believe you are totally around the
bend and incapable of understanding good sense.” “I’m
afraid old Perkins is around the bend, so we will have to
replace him with someone of sound mind.” “Jonathan has
gone a bit dotty in his old age and unfortunately appears
to have gone around the bend.” *

Around the clock 
Twenty-four hours a day continuously. “Our shop is open
twenty-four hours a day, around the clock.” “Rescue
teams have been working around the clock to try to free
earthquake victims buried beneath the rubble.” “When
medical students intern in a hospital, they are often on
call around the clock.” *

Artsy-crafty 
Having to do with arts and handicrafts. “Many Americans like to do artsy-crafty activities in their spare time,
like drawing or painting or pottery making or basketweaving” “Some women are very artsy-crafty and like to
do flower-arranging or candle-making or weaving or carpet making.” “Sometimes, we look down on fake artsy-
crafty people, if we suspect they only want to appear artistic when, in fact, they have no real creative talent.” *

As a last resort 
A last attempt after everything else has failed. “I have
tried to borrow money from everyone and been turned
down everywhere, so I’m turning to my ex-wife as a last
resort.” “I had no one else to turn to for help, so I went
back to my drug-crazed, criminal ex-husband as a last
resort.” “I tried everything to get my oldest son off drugs
without success, so I finally had to commit him to a rehabilitation clinic as a last resort.” *

As a rule 
Normally, generally, commonly; most of the time. “As a
rule, I never drink alcohol until after five-thirty in the
evening.” “As a rule, I never eat in the morning, except
when I am staying in a five star hotel, where breakfast is
included in the price.” “As a rule, I am normally able to
control my temper, but now and again it breaks out unexpectedly.” *

As clear as black and white
Clearly obvious contrasting opposites. “Everyone can see
the difference between a good action and a bad one. It is
as clear as black and white.” “The defendant claimed to
be innocent, but the prosecution said he was guilty and to
the jury his guilt was as clear as black and white.” “Anyone can see the difference between a fake Rolex and a
genuine one. It is as clear as black and white.” *

As easy as pie 
Nothing could be more-easy; it is as easy as eating apple
pie. “I can solve that problem for you; it is as easy as
pie.” “Installing an internet connection in your laptop is
as easy as pie. Anyone can do it.” “We thought the geometry exam was going to be extremely hard, but it was
as easy as pie.” *

As far as I’m concerned 
In my opinion; what I think personally; my point of view.
“As far as I am concerned, you can go to hell, and I
couldn’t care less.” “As far as I am concerned, corrupt
politicians should be caught and punished and made to
rot away in jail.” “As far as I am concerned, people can
do what they want, as long as it does no harm.” *

As far as the eye can see 
With a clear open view to the distant horizon. “Back in
the old days, my family owned all of this land around
here, as far as the eye can see.” “Where I was born, there
are wheat fields waving in the wind, as far as the eye can
see.” “From my weekend home near the sea, you can
view the open horizon as far as the eye can see.” *

As good as dead 
Might as well be dead already. “When the Mafia finds
out what I told the police, I am as good as dead.” “People
think that when you are old and can’t get around anymore, you are as good as dead.” “According to what my
doctor has reported to me, I am as good as dead already.”* 

As good as gold 
Perfectly behaved. “My son is very badly-behaved, but
your son is just as good as gold.” “Oh. Mom. Please let
me go with you to the party. I promise to be as good as
gold.” “After I gave my son a good talking to, he was as
good as gold for the rest of the evening.” *

As high as a kite 
Intoxicated on alcohol or drugs. “Once, I smoked marijuana and got as high as a kite.” “When I arrived at the
party, our hostess was as high as a kite and was going
around kissing everybody in sight.” “Back in the sixties,
my grandfather got as high as a kite every night. Now, he
thinks drink and drugs should be avoided.” *

As if that were not enough
To commit another bad action, as though one’s former
bad deeds were not enough to have satisfied one’s need
to be harmful. “Annie broke my heart by leaving me,
and, as if that were not enough, she married my best
friend.” “The company fired me and destroyed my career, and, as if that were not enough, they cancelled my
health care plan, as well.” “He seduced my wife to get
control of her money, and as if that were not enough, he,
then, seduced my daughter, as well.” *

As if the sun shone out of your navel
Thinking that you are the center of the universe, as if the
sun shone out of your navel. “He’s so stuck on himself
that, he thinks the sun shines out of her navel.” “After
she won the beauty contest, she went around thinking the
sun shone out of her navel.” “Anyone who thinks the sun
shines out of his navel deserves a good, swift kick up the
arse.” *

As if there were no tomorrow
Living-it-up and acting as though today were your last
day or your last chance to enjoy your self. “Before Dad
died, he went around spending money as if there were no
tomorrow.” “I live every moment to the full, as if there
were no tomorrow.” “I try to live every moment in moral
purity as though it were my last and there were no tomorrow.” *

As light as a feather 
Just as a feather is very light in weight, so we can say
that a physical burden or the weight of a person is as
light as a feather. “When Sharon was only sixteen, she
was small and skinny and as light as a feather.” “My girlfriend weighs only thirty-seven kilos. She is as light as a
feather.” “Now that I have got that big worry off my
mind, I feel as light as a feather.” *

As old as the hills 
Used to describe a person as being very old. “My Uncle
Ike is as old as the hills. He must be almost ninety already.” “I don’t want to live to be as old as the hills and
survive as frail, weak and sickly.” “We could never actually, literally, live to be as old as the hills because then
we might even become millions of years old.” *

As sure as shootin’ 
Just as a gun shoots straight, and hits its mark, so one can 
say a thing will happen for sure and with certainty.
“Don’t trust Ebenezer. He will try to cheat you, sure as
shootin’.” “Whatever you do wrong will come back to
you, sure as shootin’.” “If you do anything to hurt an enemy, he will try to revenge himself, sure as shootin.” *

As the crow flies 
In a straight line; directly from one point to another
point. “As the crow flies is another way if saying the
shortest distance between two geographical points.” “The
shortest distance around the world is only twenty-seven
thousand miles, as the crow flies.” “Willow Lake is only
five miles from town as the crow flies, but if you drive
up there, you have to follow an eighteen-mile-long snaking, winding mountain track.” *

As thick as thieves 
Just as thieves may conceive a plan together in which
they must trust and depend on each other, so we may say
that people acting together with hidden motives and intentions are as thick as thieves. “I don’t know what the
Prime Minister and the leader of the opposition are plotting together, but everyone can see they are as thick as
thieves.” “The CFO and the CEO are as thick as thieves;
no one knows what secret strategy they might have
worked-out to manipulate the financial resources of the
company.” “Uncle Freddy and Johnny Mack are as thick
as thieves. Nobody knows what they are up to, and no
one can come between them.” *

As tough as nails 
Tough; hard as steel; impervious to pain. “That guy looks
as tough as nails. I sure wouldn’t want to have to fight
him” “My big brother is as tough as nails, and, when, he
is forced to fight, he always wins and never fails.” “The
US Marines are trained to be rough and tough and as
hard as nails.” *

Ask around 
Keep asking people, inquire amongst your friends, and
see what you can find out. “Can you ask around and find
out if anybody has seen an orange and white-striped Siamese cat?” “Can you ask around and find somebody who
would be willing to edit the English in my doctoral thesis?” “Can you ask around if anybody would like to buy
a 1980 Classic Mercedes Benz 450 SLC? I have to sell it
because I don’t drive anymore.” *

Asking for trouble 
Doing something that will likely get you onto trouble.
“Doreen is just asking for trouble, the way she flirts with
her sister’s husband.” “Clive is just asking for trouble,
the way he contradicts his supervisor all the time.” “If
you start selling drugs to your friends at school, you are
asking for trouble.” *

Assure someone of 
Make someone feel certain; give someone a sense of assurance. “I can assure you that the applicant is a person
of good character.” “I’m sorry I was rude and impolite. I 
can assure you that it won’t happen again.” “I can assure
you that our company will provide you with the very best
service.” *

At a moment’s notice 
Immediately, the moment someone informs you. “You
can call me anytime, and I’ll come running at a moment’s notice.” “Just phone us when you have a problem
with your computer system, and we’ll have an IT specialist come and fix it at a moment’s notice.” “The UN Relief Team has a mobile medical unit that is ready to respond to any medical emergency, immediately, at a moment’s notice.” *
At an impasse At a point where further progress or mutual understanding is impossible. “Pakistan and India came to an impasse in their discussions about Kashmir and have broken off relations.” “The two negotiating parties have
come to an impasse and mediations have broken down.”
“The Turks and the Greeks have come to an impasse on
how Cyprus should be divided, and it looks like they will
never be able to come to an agreement.” *

At an inopportune moment
At an awkward, inconvenient or embarrassing moment.
“You have come at an inopportune moment because I
have three meetings scheduled this afternoon, back-toback.” “Oh! I’m sorry. I didn’t know you were shaving. I
am afraid that I have walked in on you at an inopportune
moment.” “I walked in to my boss’s office at an inopportune moment when he was smooching with his secretary.” *

At cross-purposes 
Striving for opposite goals; working against one another;
opposed to one another. “I am afraid that we are talking
at cross-purposes, because what you suggest would destroy the effect that I want to achieve.” “Committee
members who are trying to achieve conflicting goals will
always be talking at cross-purposes.” “When one staff
member wants to do one thing and another colleague
wants to do the opposite, they will be working at cross purposes.”

At death’s door 
About to die; approaching death; on the threshold of
death; just waiting to die. “When you are at death’s door,
you can no longer turn back the clock and make up for
your sins.” “He was almost at death’s door, when he finally realized that he had wasted his whole life in the
pursuit of wine, women and worldly pleasures.” “When a
man is at death’s door, it is time for him to make his final
peace with the world.” *

At each other’s throats 
Trying to choke and strangle one another; attacking each
other; disagreeing aggressively. “Just as two people may
be trying to strangle each other with their hands at one
another’s throats, so we may say that two people in a violent, verbal disagreement are at one another’s throats.”
“The Regional Manager and the Senior Partner are at
each other’s throats about who will become Chairman of
the Board.” “Mother and Father are at each other’s
throats concerning which way the family votes in the
Federal election.” “Before and after and during the divorce proceedings, Ted and Alice were literally at each
other’s throats.” *

At face value 
What seems to be the apparent value based only upon
what one can be visually seen. “A face value, this George
Washington penny is only worth one cent, but its value
as a collector’s item is ten times that much.” “At face
value, Blue Chip Stocks seem to have be the best bet, but
investing in venture capital may pay-off better in the long
run.” “Judging on what we can see at face value, the
company is not worth too much, but, for the man with the
right business skills, it could turn into a billion dollar
winner.” *

At last 
Finally, after a long period of waiting! “At last! I’m glad
you have finally arrived. I‘ve been standing out here in
the rain for thirty minutes.” “At last! I’ve been waiting
for two years for you to ask me to marry you, and now
you have finally popped the question.” “I waited for the
books to arrive by sea mail for more than three months,
but when I was starting to give up hope, they finally arrived at last.” *

At loggerheads 
Cannot compromise and come to an agreement; at odds
with one another; cannot see eye to eye. “The student’s
council and the university administration are at loggerheads about allowing male and female students to become roommates in the dormitories.” “Management and
trade unions are at loggerheads concerning the question
of instituting a thirty-six hour work week with no decrease in pay.” “The government and the NGO’s are at
loggerheads concerning how much money should be allotted to provide aid to the earthquake victims.” *

At loose ends 
With time on your hands and nothing to do. “I don’t have
a job right now, and I’m just hanging around at home, at
loose ends, going half crazy with nothing to do.” “I live
alone, and over the Christmas holidays, I find myself
with a lot of free time on my hands, at loose ends, wondering what to do with myself.” “If you ever find yourself at loose ends and you feel lonely, call me up and I’ll
take you to a movie.” *

At odds with 
Having a difference of opinion with. “Middy is at odds
with Jonathan, and they are having an argument over
there in the corner.” “Dunsmore is at odds with everyone,
and he is refusing to talk any more.” “Middy and Hunter 
are not at odds any more, and, you can see them coming
arm-in-arm through the door.” *

At one’s wits end 
Trying to figure what to do about a problem and running
out of ideas about what to do about it. “I’ve been trying
apologize to Jonathan, but he won’t speak to me and I’m
at my wit’s end about how we can become friends
again.” “I used to be able to tolerate with my wife’s constant sarcastic remarks, but, now, I find I’ve had quite
enough. Frankly, I’m about to go around the bend and at
my wit’s end.” *

At opposite poles 
Just as the north and south poles are diametrically opposite to one another, so the opinions of people can be at
opposite poles. “People who are at opposite ends of an
argument are diametrically opposed, at opposite poles
“The Liberal Prime Minister and the Conservative
Leader of the Opposition are always at opposite poles of
any argument.” “Whatever my wife and I talk about, we
find that we are always at opposite poles, and I am about
ready to shoot her bed sheet full of holes.” *

At peace with the world 
Calm and tranquil. “A man who is at peace with the
world has nothing against anybody anymore and has accepted the world as the way it is. “I have forgiven everyone who ever hurt me and feel at peace with the world.”
“If you want to make injustice your enemy, then, you’ll
never be at peace with the world.” *

At point blank range 
Up, close enough, to hold a gun against someone’s ribs
or head and shoot. “In former times, a gunman was able
to walk right up to the President and shoot him in the
heart at point blank range.” “Nowadays, because security
is tighter, it is hard for hired-killers to just walk up to
politicians and shoot them at point blank range.” “If you
shoot someone at point blank range, you’re sure to get
caught, but if you shoot from a nearby roof top you
might not get caught.” *

At someone’s beck call 
Always available and ready, when beckoned or called, to
do someone’s bidding, to give him what he asks for without hesitating or complaining at all. “A household servant is always at the master’s beck and call, day and
night.” “Darling, whenever you need me I will always be
at your beck and call.” “I would never ever want to have
a job where I was always at someone’s beck and call.” *

At the breaking point 
Just as a beam or girder may be stressed under pressure
to the point where it finally at the point of breaking, so a
person may be said to be at the breaking point when he is
about to break out in stress and anger or to have a nervous breakdown. “There’s so much pressure at the office
that I am almost at the breaking point.” “My patience has
been tested so far that it is reaching the breaking point.” 
“I have been listening to your unfair criticism for so long
that I am almost at the breaking point.” *

At the drop of a hat 
Immediately if so requested; in just the time it takes for
your hat to drop to the ground; in no time at all. “You’re
request is my desire. Just give me the word, and I’ll respond, at the drop of a hat.” “Just propose marriage to
me, and I will accept at the drop of a hat.” “One minute,
he’s cool, calm and collected. The next minute, as if at
the drop of a hat, he’s boiling with rage.” *

At the end of the day 
Finally, in the end; looking back after all is done and
said. “You can try to fulfill all your hopes and dreams,
but, at the end of the day, you’ll have to be realistic and
be satisfied with whatever you are able to achieve.” “You
can make the world your adversary, but, at the end of the
day, you will realize that no matter how hard you fight,
you can never win.” “At the end of the day, when all is
said and done, you will finally realize that the things your
father tried to teach you were all for your own good.” *

At the end of your fingertips
Within arm’s reach; where you can reach out and touch
it; close at hand; right there in front of you; within grasp;
close enough to lay a hand on. “I would rather have a TV
remote control at the end of my fingertips than have to
stand up and walk across the room every time I want to
change a channel.” “Holding a computer mouse in your
hand means you have all the resources of the Internet at
your fingertips.” “Always keep a long hairpin or a pair of
scissors within reach, at the end of your fingertips, just in
case you have to defend your self from brutal, sexual attack.” *

At the end of your tether 
Just as a dog, tied to a post, can only run as far as to the
end of his of his rope (or tether) before choking on his
collar, so we can say that when a person has finally lost
patience he is at the end of his tether. “I have been putting up with constant stupidity, for long enough, but,
now, I am at the end of my tether and cannot take anymore.” ‘That’s it! I’ve had enough! I’m at the end of my
tether, and I am not going to tolerate any more of your
insolent back-talk.” “I tried my father’s patience until he
finally reached the end of his tether, and, so, when he had
finally had enough of my naughtiness, he told me to get
out of the house.” *

At the helm 
Just as a steersman standing at the helm of a ship, turns
the steering wheel, to control the rudder, to keep the ship
on course, so we may say that when a manager has been
put in charge of a big company, he takes charge and
takes over control to try to steer the organization on a
steady course. “With George Bush at the helm of the Republican corporate conglomerate, the USA had been 
steering an unsteady course.” “The British were lucky
that they had Tony Blair at the helm to steer them
through troubled waters and troubled times.” “Bill Gates
may no longer be at the helm of Microsoft, but the company is sure to steer a steady course as long as they follow his guidance.” *

At the summit of success 
Just as a mountain-climber finally reaches the peak of the
summit at the top of the mountain, so a person may be
said to have reached the summit of his career when he
has finally reached the highest possible point or peak.
“Jack Kennedy was suddenly assassinated at the summit
of his success.” “Marilyn Monroe had reached the summit of her success when she, unexpectedly died of a supposed overdose of sleeping pills.” “When old poets have
passed the summit of their success, they pass away in
future generation’s memories.” *

At the top of your voice 
As loudly as you can speak, scream or shout. “When you
go into a disco, you can shout at the top of your voice,
and your friends won’t be able to hear you.” “I kept calling out for help at the top of my voice but there was nobody within miles to listen.” “If you shout like that, at the
top of your voice, I’ll plug my ears and refuse to listen.”*

At your own risk 
If you do something unsafe, you take the responsibility
for putting your self in danger. “If you walk across the
road in heavy traffic, without using the overhead footbridge, you do so at your own risk.” “Visitors at the zoo
are warned that if they touch the animals, they do so at
their own risk.” “If you ski off-the-slopes, in the deeppowder snow between the trees, you do so at your own
risk.” *

Attend to business 
Apply yourself to the work at hand. “Stop daydreaming
and attend to business!” “It’s time to stop hesitating and
attend to business before it’s too late.” “I think that
we’ve wasted enough time discussing uncertainties, so,
now, it’s time to get down and attend to business.” *

Attention-getter 
A trick or device to get people’s attention. “Girls who
wear low-cut blouses, as an attention-getters, certainly
become the center-points of attention.” “Advertisers like
to use an attention-getter, like an image of a super star or
a sexy woman, to draw attention to their product.”
“When you write an essay, you should always use an attention-getter in the first sentence to make people want to
continue reading.” *

Avoid confrontation 
Prevent argument or disagreement by avoiding direct
conflict. “In dealing with clients, try, at all costs, to avoid
any direct confrontation or disagreement.” “In Asian culture it is common to avoid direct confrontation by evad-
ing the question.” “If you want to get along harmoniously with people in this world, it is better to avoid confrontation and altercation.” *

Axe to grind 
A grudge to settle; a feeling of anger to resolve; a motive
for revenge; a bone to pick; an old resentment to express;
an issue to argue about. “I’ve got an axe to grind with
you about the miserable way you mistreated my father
when he was married to you.” “Socialists always have
the same old axe to grind, that it is unfair for the rich to
get richer and the poor to get poorer.” “My foreman says
he has an axe to grind with me about the way I have neglected my responsibility to keep an eye out for signs of
quality and damage control.” *

Babbling idiot 
A mentally-challenged person who talks incoherent nonsense without stopping; a fool who never makes sense
and never knows when to shut up. “Stop talking like a
babbling idiot and take a moment to think about what
you are saying.” “They couldn’t crown Prince Cuthbert
as King because he was just a babbling idiot, so they poisoned him according to custom and crowned his cousin.”
“I try to avoid conversation with my uncle John because
he always runs on like a babbling idiot.” *

Babe-in-arms 
A newly-born innocent baby, still in its mother’s arms.
“My father died when I was just a babe in arms.” “I was
just a babe in arms when my oldest brother came home
from the Gulf War.” “When the World Trade Center was
bombed, I was just a babe in arms.” *

Babes in the woods 
Young people so innocent that they have no idea of the
dangers in life in the outside world. “While we are just
innocent babes in the woods, people can take advantage
of us easily.” “When my wife and I first married, we
were still babes in the woods, with no idea of what was
going on in the world.” “My sister and I were just babes
in the woods when we came to New York from Oklahoma at the age of sixteen and seventeen. respectively” *

Bachelor party 
In England, there is a custom for a man about-to-bemarried to have party with his male friends on the last
night of his bachelorhood at which they drink a lot and
sometimes engage in sexual escapades with girls hired
for the purpose.” “For Tom’s bachelor party, we arranged to have a strip-teaser in a Playboy Bunny costume 
jump out of a giant vanilla cake.” “I got really drunk and
totally passed-out at my bachelor party, and I was so
hung-over, on my wedding day, that I could barely remain standing throughout the ceremony.” “The Ladies’
League for Manners and Morals is against the idea of
bachelor parties in general, and, in particular, when they
include sexual escapades.” *

Back away from 
Feel afraid or reluctant to face a task or problem or responsibility. “When Timmy was small, he used to retreat
and back away from any sort of direct confrontation, but,
now, he’s bigger, he’s learning to stand up for himself.”
“Don’t back away from the responsibility of raising a
family. Do your duty and behave like a man.” “I have
been backing away from the responsibility of solving my
parents’ financial situation, but, now, I have decided the
time has come to try to face the problem head-on, before
it gets even worse.” *

Back down 
Reverse your opinion and admit you were wrong; admit
or concede defeat. “I was sure I was right, but, now, that
I see I was wrong, I’ll have to back down and admit defeat.” “A man who is strong-headed and stubborn will
find it hard to back down and yield defeat.” “I’m sorry I
took such a strong opinion based on such weak evidence,
and, now, I’m ready to back down and admit my mistake.” *

Back in business 
Just as a business may be shut down and then start up
again, so we can say a person is back in business once he
has overcome a period of difficulties and is back in action again. “John Travolta had a slump in his movie career as he started getting older and fatter, but, then, he
started playing character parts, and he was soon back in
business.” “I did a lot of drugs and alcohol in my twenties and went totally to the dogs, but, then, I underwent a
period of rehabilitation and self-development, and, now,
I’m back in business.” “I had a bout with prostrate cancer, which laid me out for a while, but, now, I’m back on
my feet and back in business.” *

Back on your feet 
Just as fighter can be knocked-down and, then, get up
and fight again, so a person may be said to be back on his
feet after a period of illness of financial difficulties. “He
lost all his money in the Dot.Com craze, but started over
from scratch and made a come-back in currency speculation, and now he is back on his feet. “I am happy to see
that you up and about and back on your feet now that the
cancer has been eliminated.” “I had a tough time after
losing my wife and the house and the business, but, now,
I’ve got a government job, and I’m starting to get back
on my feet.” * 

Back out of 
Fail to fulfill an obligation; desert the cause; make a
promise and then withdraw. “You made me a promise to
marry me, so, please don’t back out on me now.” “At
first they were going to invest three million in the project, but they backed-out at the last moment.” “Simms
had made a verbal agreement to represent the company,
but, when it came to contract signing time, he unexpectedly backed out of his promise.” *

Back seat driver 
Someone who sits in the back seat of a car and tells the
driver what to do. “There’s nothing I hate worse than a
backseat driver. It always makes me nervous when
someone criticizes my driving skills.” “My mother-inlaw was a back seat driver until we bought her a car of
her own.” “The best thing to do with a back seat driver is
tell him to get out and walk.” *

Back to earth 
Return to reality from a world of fantasy and illusion.
“It’s time you stopped dreaming and finally come back to
earth.” “I was high in the sky with elation when I first
fell in love, but I came back to earth with a bang when
the honeymoon period was over.” “People who start off
with high hopes are often disappointed when they have to
come back down to earth with a bang and accept the bare
facts of reality.” *

Back to square one 
Just as one might start over again by going back to the
first square in a crossword puzzle, so one might have to
go back to the beginning of a project or task and start
over again from the beginning. “The scientific trials
showed that we were taking the wrong approach, so we
will have to go back to square one and seek a new strategy.” “The government has put the project on hold,
which means that the construction company will have to
go back to square one at a later date and recalculate the
risks and costs once again.” “Negotiations were deadlocked at the end of the conference, so they decided to go
back to square one and try a new approach to mediating
their problems.” *

Back to the drawing board
Scrap or cancel a project and go back and start to draw
up new plans again, from the beginning. “Every design
we have tried has failed under strain and testing, so it’s
time to go back to the drawing board again.” “The committee has not accepted our plan, so we have to go back
to the drawing board again and think up another
scheme.” “The City Engineering Office keeps rejecting
our systems and sending us back to the drawing board to
try to find new methods again.” *

Back to the wall 
In an indefensible position so it’s hard to fight your way
out. “When your back is against the wall and you cannot
retreat, the best thing to do is to concede defeat.” “When 
you are caught with your back to the wall, sometimes,
you have no other choice but to forget your fear and fight
your way towards the door.” “I have been forced into a
position where my back is against the wall, so I have no
other choice but to admit I am beat and concede defeat.”*

Backbiting-bitch 
A quarrelsome woman, compared to a dog which bites
from behind, who makes spiteful and vicious and hurtful
remarks. “Ted’s wife is a vicious, backbiting-bitch, and I
don’t know how he puts up with her.” “Stop being such a
backbiting-bitch! Try to look friendly and say something
good for a change.” “I hate my big sister Sally because
she is such a mean-minded backbiting-bitch.” *

Back-breaking work 
Hard labor; physical work that is strenuous, arduous and
grueling. “Carrying one hundred kilo sacks of rice from a
barge over onto a dock-side pier is back-breaking work.”
“Lifting heavy pots of plants and loading them into a
truck is back-breaking work.” “When I was in jail in
Georgia, I was assigned to chain-gang that had to do the
back-breaking work of splitting up big rocks with heavy
sledge-hammers.” *

Backdoor someone 
Refers to a male lover who comes in the back door when
the woman’s husband goes out the front door. “If you
backdoor you best friend by courting his wife, you risk
the chance of ruining her life.” “Jake’s being backdoored
by his cousin Clem and everybody in town knows it but
him.” “Mike told me that if he ever caught anybody
backdooring him with his wife, he’d cut off the other
guy’s balls with a knife.” *

Backfire 
Just as a gun may not shoot properly and so backfire, so a
plan can miscarry, go wrong, or blow up in your face.
“The economic reform plan of the government backfired
and caused a deep recession instead.” “The President’s
proposed tax cuts, to benefit the rich, are likely to backfire, in his face, and cause him to lose the next election.”
“My plan, to get my co-worker, Ken, blamed, blackballed and fired, ultimately backfired, and I was the one
that got fired instead.” *

Backhander 
A bribe given to someone in a way which others cannot
see. “When a policeman stops my car, I place a one hundred Baht note inside the palm of my hand and twist my
wrist around so he can see and take it as a backhander.”
“In some countries, the only thing you can get from the
government without a backhander is a postage stamp.”
“If you expect a favor from an official you will also have
to expect that he will want a backhander.” *

Back-off 
Just as a boxer would back-off in the ring to avoid being
punched, so we can tell someone to back-off to avoid the 
consequences, by saying, for example, “I warn you;
Back-off! Don’t push me; don’t confront me; don’t
threaten me; don’t be aggressive towards me; don’t drive
me to the point where I’ll have no choice but to fight and
hurt you.” “Sandra kept pushing me to confess that I had
abused her, but I told her if she didn’t back-off she would
regret it.” “Mr. Congreve wanted to fight against my proposal at the meeting, but I told him to back-off, or I’d tell
everyone he was having sex with his secretary during
office hours, and that shut him up quickly.” *

Back-scratching 
When you do somebody a favor so he will do you a favor, we call this back-scratching.” “You scratch my back
I’ll scratch your back’ can be taken literally or figuratively.” “It seems that there has been a lot of backscratching going on in government circles.” “Sometimes,
it takes a bit of mutual back-scratching to get a bill
passed through the parliament.” *

Backslapper 
In American culture, when they want to congratulate
you, for a good deed or good job to give you the impression they like you, they give you a good slap on the back.
“The custom of backslapping goes against the gentle customs of Asian culture.” “My American Uncle is always
slapping me on the back to show his approval, but this an
American characteristic of which I strongly disapprove.”
“A backslapper can also be an insincere person who is
trying to win your favor under false pretenses.” *

Back-talk 
To answer someone back in a cheeky and insolent way.
“Don’t answer back when I am scolding you, if I get any
more back-talk from you, I’ll sew a zip in your lip.”
“Don’t try to give the boss any back-talk or it will backfire on you.” Don’t give me any more of your lip. One
more smart bit of back-talk from you, and, I‘ll smack you
one.” *

Back-to-back 
Just as two people can stand back-to-back, so two activities can take place back-to-back or one after another. “In
ancient times, warriors would often fight back-to-back
for the protection it provided.” “In the conference, we
have several activities scheduled continuously back-toback to cover a wide scope of interests.” “Today my
schedule is booked with a series of appointments backto-back from morning until evening.” *

Back-to-front 
With the back side of the garment worn on the front side
of the body. “I often put on my T-shirt back-to-front
without noticing it.” “I notice that when I put on my
shorts back-to-front, they are too tight in the back side
and too loose in the front.” “People will always comment
when you are wearing a garment back-to-front.” *

Backward about coming 
Too hesitant to express an opinion or volunteer; too shy 
forward to come forward and speak one’s mind; too afraid to
stand up and ask for something; too embarrassed to speak
before others; too timid to make demands. “Our little
Timmy is so timid that he’ll never come out and say what
he wants. He’s a bit backward about coming forward.”
“Come on, Son, out with it! What is it that you want to
say? Don’t be backward about coming forward.” “We
asked our staff members to volunteer to make suggestions about how to improve the management process, but
they were backward about coming forward.” *

Backwards and forwards 
Means that you know something from beginning to end
and back again; inside-out. “I know the customs regulations backwards and forwards and inside out.” “When
you have been working with a set of laws and regulations
for years and years, you get to know them backwards and
forwards.” “There not very many linguistic scholars living today who know the complete Pali Canon backwards
and forwards.” *

Bad actor 
A person who is known for his bad behavior and actions.
“When I was a kid in school, I was known by all the
teachers as a bad actor.” “Stay away from that fellow
Oscar I hear he is a bad actor.” “Oscar Wilde became an
outcast in polite society because he was reputed to be a
bad actor.” *

Bad apple 
Just as a bad apple can ruin all the rest of the apples in a
basket by starting to rot, so a person can act as a bad apple, if he influences a group of people to change for the
worse. “Every class of schoolboys seems to have one or
two bad apples who cause a lot of trouble for the
teacher.” “One who commits or incites crimes mat be
called a “bad apple.” “There is usually one person in
every group who is a bad apple who influences the others
to lose respect for and ignore the directions of the leadership.” *

Bad blood between 
Enmity; ill-feeling; hate; antagonism; hostility. “There is
bad blood between my mother and her sisters because
they all want to inherit their father’s house when he
dies.” “My ex-wife and I have made up our differences,
and, now, there is no more bad blood between us.”
“There has long been bad blood between the two motorcycle gangs in town, and the other night an eighteen year
old boy was stabbed to death.” *

Bad bunch/bad lot 
A group of bad people who can lead you into doing
wrong. “Mugsy and his buddies are a bad lot who are
always up to no good.” “I would stay away from that
nightclub crowd if I were you. They are a bad lot who are
sure to have a bad influence on you.” “After graduation,
he stayed in London and fell in with a bad lot who started 
him on drinking and drugs which led to his eventual destruction and demise.” *

Bad egg 
Just as a bad egg can cause a whole basket to turn rotten,
so a person within a group may be called a bad egg if he
will be a bad influence on them. “Just as it only takes one
bad egg to ruin a whole basket, so it only takes one bad
member to ruin the harmony of a whole happy family.”
“It only takes one bad egg on the Board of Governors to
cause disharmony between the other members of the
board.” “A person we call a bad egg or a bad apple is one
who is likely to spoil the wholesomeness and the harmony of an otherwise, good group.” *

Bad experience 
An experience in the past that you will never forget and
which has left a lasing psychological effect. “I had a bad
experience in my childhood that affected my trust in
men.” “Mildred had a bad experience with a sex pervert,
when she was young, and it has left a lasting effect.”
“My psychiatrist says that I must have had a bad experience in math class in school when I was young that
blocked my ability to do higher mathematics later in
life.” *

Bad judgment
A decision that led to an action that caused a problem or
undesired effect. “Young people often make decisions
based on bad judgment, just because they don’t know
any better.” “Deciding to join the army at the early age of
eighteen was a bad judgment on my part that I regretted
later on in life.” “Starting an affair with my boss’s wife
was definitely the most stupid act of bad judgment that I
ever committed in my life.” *

Bad memories 
Remembrances of bad experiences in the past. “I hate to
think of my childhood because I have so many bad
memories.” “When I have to get together with my family
on holiday occasions, it always stirs up bad memories
from my youth.” “When I think back to the time I spent
in San Francisco, I have a lot of bad memories.” *

Bad shape 
In poor physical or mental condition. “After Charles
broke my heart and left me for another woman. I was in
bad shape for about two or three years.” “When I was
still psychologically disturbed by the bad experiences
and memories of my early youth, I was really unstable
and in bad shape.” “After neglecting his health for years,
due to alcohol addiction and drug dependency, he was
really in bad shape.” *

Bad taste in your mouth 
Just as eating a bitter almond, leaves a bitter taste in your
mouth, so a bitter experience in life may be said to have
left a bad taste in the mouth. “When you have a bitter
disappointment in the place of a promised success, it
leaves a bad taste in your mouth.” “When you are unexpectedly betrayed by the one and only friend you thought
you had in life, it leaves a bad taste in your mouth.” “Michael said that being homosexually molested when he
was only thirteen left a bad taste in his mouth.” *

Bad terms 
Unfriendly relations with; feeling ill-will, enmity or antagonism towards. “There has always been bad blood between my step-brother and me about who will inherit our
father’s land, and we are still on bad terms.” “Mom and
Dad have been on bad terms since Pop took his secretary
on a business trip to Chicago.” “Charlie and Chad have
been on bad terms since Charlie was named Vicepresident and took-over Chad’s job.” *

Bad-mouth 
To say bad things about; to say nasty things about; talk
bad about a thing because it doesn’t suit your needs or
wishes; to gossip to belittle or demean in a destructive
way. “Don’t bad-mouth the mayor of the city just because he is against your development plan.” He’s been
bad-mouthing my younger sister since she turned him
down the first time he ever asked her for a date.” “In a
democracy, because of freedom of speech, you can badmouth members of the government and get away with it
by calling it freedom of speech.” *

Bad-tempered 
Easily angered; irritable. “Someone who is easily angered and bad-tempered can easily lose emotional control
of himself.” “My maternal grandfather is a mean, nasty,
bad-tempered old man who lives alone and complains a
lot to his neighbors.” “My Aunt Caroline was a badtempered old witch of a woman whom no one would go
near because she was always so cranky.” *

Bag of bones 
So thin that your empty skin is like a bag of bones. “My
older sister is so skinny that she looks like nothing more
than a big long, tall, bag of bones.” “By losing forty kilos, I went from looking like an over-inflated balloon to
being like an empty-looking bag of skin and bones.” “After years of deprivation, he was reduced to being physically, reduced to little more than a mere bag of bones.” *

Bag of tricks 
Just as a magician has his bag of tricks and may upon
occasion pull a rabbit out of a hat, so a person or businessman may be said to have a bag of tricks to produce a
solution to a situation on a moment’s notice. “I’ll have to
pull something special out of my bag of tricks, so that we
will be able to balance the accounts for this month.” “I
admire that guy. Even when it looks like he is down-andout and defeated, he is always able to pull something out
of his bag of tricks to save the day.” “Financial forecasts
look bad. If we want to keep our heads above water,
we’ll have to produce some sort of temporary floatation
device from out of our bag of tricks.” * 

Bags under your eyes 
Pockets or pouches under your eyes due to tiredness or
illness or old age. “When the audit deadline is approaching everyone on the staff has bags under his eyes from
working too late and getting too little sleep.” “Why have
you got bags under your eyes? Is it because you have
been working too much or because you have been drinking too much?” “When Mom turned fifty, she started to
turn weak and sickly and developed bags under her
eyes.” *

Balancing act 
Just as a tightrope walker has to step carefully to keep
from losing his balance, so a person may have to maintain his mental balance when he has to deal with conflicting pressures without losing control. “A working wife
must somehow do a balancing act between performing
her duties at home and in the office.” “In mediating this
deal, I must do a balancing act to be sure I represent the
interests of both parties equally.” “The contract engineer
on a big project always has to do a balancing act to keep
both the contractor and the project owner happy.” *

Balk at the idea 
Just as a donkey refuses or balks at the command to go
forward, so a person may be said to balk at the suggestion that he do something. “I balk at the idea of anyone
being able to order me how to complete my creative design process.” “My students always balk at the idea of
giving a presentation of their ideas in front of the class.”
“Teachers often balk at the idea of anyone else, especially the administration, being able to control the content of their lesson plans.” *

Ball and chain 
Just as prisoners used to have an iron ball and chain
around their legs so they could not run very far away, so
a man may jokingly refer to his wife as his ball and
chain. “One day, I feel that my wife is a ball and chain.
The next day, I love her again.” “Let me introduce you to
my ball and chain. This is my wife Maude.” “Sometimes
a wife must literally hold a man back to keep him from
getting himself into trouble, as though she were literally
a ball and chain.” *

Ball someone out 
Shout loudly and blame someone for what he has done
wrong. “When I see my son, I am going to ball him out
for breaking our neighbor’s window.” “I am afraid that
my boss is really going to ball me out and tell me off for
delivering the report to the client two days past deadline.” “When a person does something wrong, it is not
enough to just give him a good balling out to censure
him. It is also necessary to explain the problem, in a way
that is clear, so it will not happen again.” *

Ball your eyes out 
Cry emotionally as though your tears will never stop.
“When my puppy died, I balled my eyes out for nearly a week.” “When you lose your first love, it’s a normal reaction to want to ball your eyes out.” “You can ball your
eyes out and cry and complain you want, but it is not going to make me change my decision to cut off your
weekly allowance.” *

Ballyhoo 
Loud, noisy uproar; racket; commotion; hullabaloo.
“What are all those people shouting about? What’s the
big ballyhoo?” “Last night, there was a big ballyhoo, outside Government House, where the farmers were demonstrating for better support and subsidies.” “OK kids; let’s
put an end to all this ballyhoo. It’s time to settle-down
and be quiet and pay attention.” *

Bamboozle someone 
Talk fast to confuse, deceive, trick, con, swindle; deceive, or take someone in. “The door-to-door salesman
bamboozled me into buying a vacuum cleaner for two
thousand dollars.” “Don’t try to bamboozle me. I am familiar with all of your devices and lies and tricks.” “My
cousin, Carlos, made an illegal living by tricking and
bamboozling people into buying phony government
bonds.” *

Band-aid solution 
Fixing a problem in a temporary way that won’t last
long. “Short term tax cuts are just a band-aid solution
that will not sufficiently influence spending on the national level.” “Raising interest rates is just a temporary,
band-aid solution that won’t influence the rising inflation
rate much in the long run.” “Increasing the registered
capital in the company is just a band-aid solution which
won’t help much to increase profits or stock dividends.”*

Bane of my life 
A curse, irritation, annoyance that is ruining your life and
keeps following you along and won’t go away. “I swear
my ex-husband is the bane of my life. Wherever I go he
and his problems keep following me.” “My ex-wife is the
bane of my life. Whenever I try to start over and get a
new foothold, she comes around and knocks me down
again.” “That child is the bane of my life. Since the day
he was born, he has behaved as if he were a child of the
devil.” *

Banging your head against the wall
Just as banging your head against the wall achieves no
purpose, so we may say that trying to convince an unwilling person to understand or do something is as useless as banging your head against the wall. “Trying to get
students to stop cheating is like banging your head
against the wall.” “Trying to get you to listen to common
sense is like banging my head against the wall.” “I have
talked until I am blue in the face to try to convince my
daughter to stop seeing that man, but I am banging my
head against the wall, because she just won’t listen.” * 

Banking on someone 
Just as we can trust and depend on a bank, so we should
be able to depend and count on a person to keep his word
and act with responsibility to support us in the way he
has promised. “We are banking on UNICEF to provide
expert advice on how to solve the situation.” “The Prime
Minister is banking on your party’s support to help him
win the next election.” “Son, I am banking on you to
graduate and then come home and help run the family
business.” *

Bankroll the job 
Usually, a big robbery necessitates a lot of pre-planning
and time and training and money before the criminals can
eventually pull-off the job. “The one who provides the
money and bankrolls the job will get the largest percent
of the take,” “Although Lefty bankrolled the job, the police were unable to pin anything on him, so he got-off
Scott-free.” “It would be possible to steal all the gold in
the treasury, but it would take a lot of money to bankroll
the job and pay off an army of men to help pull-off the
job.” *

Barbarian cruelty 
Uncivilized, brutal, beastly behavior towards a conquered and defeated people. “The Romans, despite their
vast and mighty empire, eventually became the victims
of barbarian cruelty after Rome was sacked, when hoards
of barbarian fighters from the north swept down and
raped and pillaged their way through what was left of the
Empire of Rome.” “Nowadays, after the Geneva Convention, war is supposed to follow more civilized rules of
behavior and avoid the barbarian cruelty that was practiced in the past.” “My husband is an animal, and I am
suing him for divorce, after the endless, barbarian cruelty
he has put me through over the years.” *

Barbed-tongue 
Just as barbed-wire has many sharp points that can hurt,
so a person may be said to have a sharp and hurtful
tongue. “He who speaks with a barbed tongue sends out
words and waves of pain that, one day, will come back to
hurt him again.” “We call Barbara, “Barb,” for short because she has a barbed tongue and is always making
sharp, hurtful comments” “He who speaks with a barbedtongue is subconsciously getting revenge on the world
for the cruelty and unfairness he feels has been inflicted
on him.” *

Bare bones 
Indicates something stripped-own to bare reality; to the
bare essence. “Strip illusion down to the bare bones, free
from any sense of ideality.” “A physicist must strip a
mental event of all of its embellishments until there is
nothing left but bare bones of reality.” “A meditator must
strip reality down to the bare bones of the event and then
examine the content of consciousness” * 

Bare your breast 
Open your heart and tell what hurts you; tell all that you
know... “To bare your breast means to sit down and tell
another person everything that is going on inside your
heart without holding anything back.” “Psychologists
believe it is good therapy to be able to bare your breast,
once in a while, as a way of releasing hidden, pent-up
emotions.” “Americans believe that, it does you good to
be able to talk with someone and bare you breast just to
get a load off your chest.”
Barefaced-lie An unashamed statement of mistruth. “Don’t deny you
were with that woman, in that nightclub last night. It is a
barefaced lie.” “I saw you take the money. Don’t try to
deny it! It is a bare-faced lie.” “When everyone knows
you are lying, but you lie anyway, without feeling shame,
it is a bare-faced lie.” *

Barely made it on time 
Arrived just in time to avoid missing an appointment or
deadline.” “She spent so long doing her hair that she left
home late and barely made it to her date on time.” “We
were afraid that we would be late for our flight and just
barely made it on time.” “Traffic was jammed, so I
jumped out of the van and took a motorcycle-taxi and
just barely made it to the meeting on time.” *

Bargaining chip 
Just as in a casino, gamblers play with plastic gambling
chips, so, in business, we may say, something extra we
have to offer is a bargaining chip. “In management
school, they teach you that if you have something that the
other guy wants that will cause you no loss, you can use
it as a bargaining chip.” “I think it is unfair that the company is using annual bonuses in staff negotiations as a
bargaining chip.” “The USA should not use foreign aid
as a bargaining chip to make poor countries comply with
American policies.” *

Barge-in on somebody 
Break-into abruptly and interrupt the conversation; cutinto a dialogue in an impolite manner; turn up somewhere when you are not expected or wanted; storm-in
and suddenly open someone’s door expectedly. “Sorry to
barge-in on the conference, like this, Sir, but, the Prime
Minister is waiting on the telephone and would like to
speak to you.” “Please excuse me for barging-into your
office during lunch break like this, Sir, but something has
come up that deserves your immediate attention.” “Old
Aunt Alice thinks she can barge-in on me in my home
anytime she wants. She would never consider that I
might need some private time for myself.” *

Bark is worse than his bite
Just as a dog may bark a lot but not bite at all, so we may
say that a person’s threatening talk is worse than his actions will be. “Max looks mean and talks aggressively,
but his bark is worse than his bite. Actually, deep at 
heart, he is a soft-hearted good guy.” “Our supervisor
shouts and swears and speaks very harshly, but his bark
is worse than his bite.” “Pay no attention to Mom. She
may sound threatening, but her bark is worse than her
bite. Mom is actually quite harmless and kind.” *

Barking-up the wrong tree
Just as a dog may be barking, at the bottom of one tree,
when the squirrel he is chasing has already jumped to
another tree, so we may say, comparatively, that one person may be wrongly accusing another person about a
wrong thing which yet a third person did. “Don’t blame
me for starting that nasty rumor about you. You’re barking up the wrong tree.” “If you think I’m responsible for
getting you fired, you’re barking up the wrong tree.”
“Don’t accuse me of being the one who let out your secret. If you think it was me, you’re barking up the wrong
tree” *

Barrage of criticism 
Just as the known-presence of an enemy can attract a
bombardment or barrage of artillery fire; a volley of mortar fire, or a hail of bullets, so a public action or statement can attract a barrage of censure and disapproval
from the press or the public. “The Prime Minister’s angry
comments caused a barrage of criticism in the press.”
“The radically, modern architectural design of the new
cultural center was met with a barrage of criticism from
the critics.” “When scientists first started talking about
cloning human beings, the idea evoked a barrage of criticism from religious and academic circles all around the
world.”
Barrel of laughs A person or event full of fun and jokes. “We always like
to get Big Bob to MC the office party because he full of
humor and is a barrel of laughs.” “My brother Bill is a
barrel of laughs. He is so funny; he has us rolling on the
floor with laughter all the time.” “Come to the company
party on Friday. We’ll all have a barrel of laughs.” *

Base instinct 
Low natural motive. “Base instinct makes men behave
like beasts.” “The will to kill is said to be a base instinct.
Rape is also an action based on base instinct.” “When a
man acts from base instinct, without following law or
reason, he is driven to do evil, anti-social things.” *

Base motives 
Low and primitive desires and wants; harmful natural
instincts; bad intentions. “Trying to hurt someone you are
jealous of arises from base motives.” “It is said that some
people enter politics for personal benefit due to base motives.” “Try and be a good citizen by controlling your
base motives and obeying the law in a way that is good
for all.” *

Bash someone’s brains in 
Beat someone over the head until you actually smash in
his brains. “No citizen with basic decency would consider bringing harm upon another human being.” “Father
threatened to bash my brains in, if he ever caught me lying again.” “If you lay one finger on my little sister, I’ll
bash your brains in.” “If I ever see you look at another
woman, I’ll bash your brains in.” *

Basic decency 
Common politeness; the minimum courtesy required in
polite society, respect, courtesy and civility. “Please
show the basic decency of paying respect to your elders.”
“At least you should have the basic decency to apologize
for all the harm you have done.” “You should at least
have the basic decency to admit when you have done
wrong.” *

Battle it out 
Fight against someone or something in order to win or
achieve your goal. “During their divorce case, Mom and
Dad had to battle it out who would take custody of me.”
“We’ll just have to sit down together and brainstorm and
battle it out who gets to do what and with which to
whom.” “The Democrats and the Conservatives are going to have to battle it out to decide whether the new, reform legislation will be passed or not.” *

Battle of the bulge 
Fighting a fat stomach by keeping to a diet. “The best
way to win the battle of the bulge is to burn more energy
than you consume.” “When middle-aged men start becoming pot-bellied, they begin fighting what we call the
‘battle of the bulge.’” “When I started the battle of the
bulge at age forty-four, I started jogging ten kilometers
every day to keep my weight under control” *

Battle of the sexes 
The natural struggle between men and women to get their
own way. “I’m tired of the battle of the sexes. I think I
will give up women for a while.” “Some psychologists
say that the battle of the sexes is based on deep, primitive, natural instincts.” “Once you accept that the battle
of the sexes reflects a normal state of nature, you come to
accept and live with it.” *

Battle of the wits War of words to prove who is more-clever. “Intellectuals
are still having a battle of the wits about the relationship
between reality and ideality.” “A college debate is a battle of the wits to see which side can make the best use of
words to make the most points in favor of its side of the
argument.” “The Prime Minister and the Leader of the
Opposition in Parliament are having a battle of the wits
in the determining the definition of human rights.” *

Be a buffer between 
Serve as a cushion or shock-absorber between two pressures or forces; negotiate and mediate between opposing
parties. “A legal mediator is often named as a neutral and
impartial party to serve as a buffer between aggressivelyopposed parties.” “In Parliament, the Liberal Democrats
serve as a buffer between the conservative right wing and 
the socialist left wing.” “In big building projects, it is
good to have a contract engineer to serve as a buffer between the conflicting interests of the owner of the project
and the working construction team.” *

Be an asset to the company
Be a person who brings benefit to the company. “If you
look at my qualifications and experience, you will see
that I will be an asset and benefit to the company.” “We
have not fired old David Holmes, yet, because we still
consider him to be an asset to the company.” “Someone
who seeks personal gain by using confidential information connected to his job is no longer considered as an
asset to the company.” *

Be fed-up 
Just as you may feel so full from eating that you are fedup or full-up to your ears, so you can say you have finally reached the final limit of your patience so you can’t
stand it anymore. “I’m fed-up with my job. I can’t stand
doing the same routine things day after day.” “I’m bored.
I’ve had enough. I’m fed-up to the ears with all your lies
and broken promises.” “I am fed-up with your bad behavior and indifferent attitude and I’m not going to stand
for it any more.” *

Be in the right place at the right moment
To have the good luck to be in the right place at the right
time, when an occasion or opportunity arises. “I got the
job because I happened to be in the right place at the
right moment.” “Sometimes, when you are in the right
place at the right moment, you will have a stroke of good
luck and good things will happen to you.” “It’s a lucky
thing that I happened to arrive in the right place at the
right moment so I was able to drag the unconscious girl
out of her burning car.” *

Be on good terms 
Have good relations with. “I am on very good terms with
Ajarn Piyanart, and that relationship is what keeps me
working within her department.” “The owner of our company is on good terms with the Prime Minister which
makes him privy to inside information.” “My ex-wife
and are still on good terms despite the fact that we have
been divorced for forty years.” *

Be on tenterhooks 
Feel anxious, nervous; excited; fearful; apprehensive; on
edge; hanging in suspense. “I was nervous, excited and
on tenterhooks before the interview, but once I entered
the room, sat down and began talking, I forgot all my
fears.” “All the family is at the hospital, waiting on tenterhooks, for father to come out of a coma.” “The entire
world is waiting on tenterhooks, to see if the giant meteor
from outer space will collide directly with the earth or
just rush closely past in a nearby orbit.” *

Be on your best behavior 
Be careful not to do anything wrong and try to show
good manners so people will see you on your good side. 
“When you come to meet my parents for Sunday dinner,
you had better be on your best behavior.” “The principal
has told me that I had better be on my best behavior and
not make any more mistakes or he is going to kick me
out of school.” “If I take you with me to the Church Social Evening, you had better be on your best behavior and
not be rude or crude or lewd.” *

Be on your toes 
Be careful; be prepared; be ready; watch yourself; be
sure to follow the rules; don’t let anyone find any fault;
don’t slip up; don’t get caught in the act of doing anything wrong;. “I’d better be on my toes and not get
caught breaking any more rules, or I am sure to be suspended from school.” “The City Council will have to be
on its toes to make sure that it has access to an alternative
water supply in case the reservoir runs dry during the hot
season.” “Be on your toes so that your supervisor doesn’t
catch you doing your private e-mail on company time on
the company computer.” *

Be short-listed 
To be one of a select few, narrowed down and chosen
from a larger group, to be considered as a candidate for a
position or job or scholarship. “Penelope Percy has been
short-listed, together with four other candidates, to be
considered for appointment as the newest member of the
Supreme Court.” “I have been short-listed to be evaluated as the possible recipient of a government-sponsored
scholarship to study in the States.” “From all of the candidates for Miss World, five girls have been short-listed,
and each and every one is hoping to become the lucky
one to wear the crown.” *

Beaming with pride 
Smiling broadly, feeling pleased and proud because of an
accomplishment or achievement. “After the wedding
ceremony, both the groom and the bride were beaming
with pride.” “When my sister was presented the award
for the highest grade-average in the whole school, both
she and my parents were beaming with pride.” “When
my brother received his military commission certificate,
after officer training school, he was absolutely beaming
with pride.” *

Bean-counter 
Someone, like an accountant or auditor or tax official,
who has to go into every little financial detail. “Being a
bean-counter is like counting grains of rice and only enjoyable if you are the kind of person who enjoys working
with numbers.” “If you want to make an accountant mad,
tell him he is nothing but a bloody bean counter.” “The
company managing partner is really a bean counter at
heart; he counts every single penny spent, right from the
start.” *

Bean-pole 
A boy who is very tall and thin, comparable to a long, 
thin bean stalk. “When I was in grade school, I was very
tall and skinny compared to the other boys, so they gave
me the nickname of ‘Bean-pole.’” “Often, a boy who is a
bean pole excels in the game of basketball, because his
height gives him and advantage over the other players.
“In fact, being born as a bean-pole can sometimes be the
first step to becoming a basketball super-star in the
NBA.” *

Bear a grudge 
Continue to feel a bitter sense of resentment against
someone because of some harm he did to you in the past.
“I still bear a grudge against my brother for giving me a
bad physical beating, out in the street, right in front of
our family house more than twenty years ago.” “Many
Scotsmen still bear a grudge against the English for the
way the British Army surrounded and mercilessly
slaughtered and killed the Scottish Highlanders.” “Many
Indonesians still bear a grudge against Holland for the
harsh treatment they received during the Dutch Colonial
Period in the past.” *

Bear false witness 
Swear and give testimony that a falsehood is a truth.
“Bearing false witness in court is called ‘perjury’ and is
punishable under the law.” “To lie to protect someone
from being punished by saying he could not have been at
the scene at the time of the crime is to bear false witness.” “The Bible claims that it is a sin to bear false witness by swearing to the truth of something you know not
to be true.” *

Bear in mind 
Remember; be mindful of; don’t forget. “Always bear in
mind that anything you say may be held against you.”
“Bear in mind that if you do not pay the personal withholding tax on time, you will be liable to a penalty and
surcharge.” “We must always bear in mind that putting
personal gain before personal purity will result in personal pain.” *

Bear the burden 
Carry the load; do most of the work; take responsibility;
be laden with accountability. “Since I am the oldest son,
I have to bear the burden of seeing that my parents will
be financially secured for their future.” “Whatever may
happen on a ship, it is always the captain who must carry
the burden of responsibility.” “I am always chosen to be
the leader of a teamwork activity because everybody
knows I will bear most of the burden of doing the work.”*

Bear with it 
Don’t give-up; persevere and endure; try to put-up with
something unpleasant or wearisome until it finally comes
to an end. “Learning perfect English is not easy, but if
you just bear with it and keep on practicing, eventually,
you’ll talk like a native speaker.” “Having to adjust to 
married-life is awkward, at first, but, if you just bear with
it, you will learn to like it after a while.” “I know it is
hard to work long hours doing difficult calculations, but,
if you just bear with it, you will get used to it.” *

Bear with me a moment 
Be patient and continue listening to me a while until I
have said what I want to explain “Please bear with me a
moment, and let me explain the source of the misunderstanding.” “If you will bear with me for a moment, I can
explain everything.” “Bear with me a moment and just
listen. Hear me out, and let me tell you the basic facts.” *

Bear witness to 
Be able to report something one has seen with one’s own
eyes. “The children can bear witness to the fact that their
father never hit them in their lives.” “My secretary can
bear witness to the fact that I arrive at my office at 8am
every day.” “I can bear witness and give testimony to the
fact that it was Jack who stabbed Spike in the back.” *

Beard the lion in his den 
Just as it takes courage to go into the cave of a lion and
pull on his beard, so it takes courage to go into the lair or
den or office of a person we fear to approach and ask him
for a favor. “Working up courage to go into your father’s
study because you need to ask his permission to withdraw from school, may be compared to bearding a lion in
his den.” “If you want to approach the Prime Minister,
you will have to beard him in his den, where he is writing
and rewriting his resignation speech over and over
again.” “The Ambassador is in a foul mood this morning.
I wouldn’t want to barge in and beard the lion in his den,
so I think I’ll wait until morning and, then, come back
again.” *

Beast of burden 
Just as an elephant can carry a heavy load working as a
beast of burden, so sometimes people complain that in
their lives and jobs that they are being treated like beasts
of burden. “I’m not a beast of burden, and I don’t see
why the firm is putting such a heavy load on my shoulders for me to carry.” “When I go shopping with my
mother, she loads me down with bags and packages, like
I was nothing more than a beast of burden.” “I am no
buffalo. I’m not a just a beast of burden, so don’t try to
load me down with all the work and responsibility or I’ll
balk or go berserk.” *

Beat a hasty retreat 
Run away quickly; run-for-safety. “Special forces troops
had to beat a hasty retreat before rebel forces encircling
the camp closed in on them.” “We’d better get out of the
bank vault quickly and beat a hasty retreat before someone catches us.” “I’d better beat a hasty retreat before
someone realizes I’m in a restricted area.” *

Beat about the bush 
Speak indirectly and hesitate for a long time before finally coming to the point. “Stop beating indirectly 
around the bush and come out and tell me directly what it
is that you want to say.” “I wish you would come out and
tell me exactly what is bothering you and stop beating
around the bush.” “He wanted to ask me to marry him,
but he beat around the bush for a long time before developing the courage to actually pop the question.” *

Beat someone to the punch
Be the first to get started, before the others have a
chance; be the first to think of and do an action and beat
‘em to it. “I always wanted to ask Sally to marry me, but
my brother beat me to the punch and married her himself.” “If you want to make it big in the marketplace, you
have to devise a strategy to beat the competition to the
punch.” “If you want to get in ahead of the others and
always get a head start, you’ll have to beat them to the
punch.” *

Beat the daylight out of someone
Give someone a good beating until you make him unconscious. “If I ever catch you lying to me again, I’ll beat
the living daylight out of you.” “My first husband was
physically abusive, he and used to come home drunk and
beat the living daylights out of me.” “If my husband
finds out we are having an affair behind his back, he will
beat the living daylight out of both of us.” *

Beat the drum 
Just as one might, literally, beat the drum in a marching
band to support a cause, so one may be said to be beating
a drum, figuratively, when one actively “drums up” support for an idea, issue or ideology. “The high school band
is playing in a parade that is marching through town, to
drum up support for the annual charity drive.” “Just before thee election, the Conservative candidate for Prime
Minister did a whirl-wind tour through seven constituencies to try to drum up enough support to help him tip the
scale of political balance.” “Despite the fact that activists, intellectuals and scientists have been trying to drum
up support to force industrial nations to protect and save
the environment, not enough is being done to counteract
the root of burning need and greed that leads to the burning fossil fuels.” *

Beat the heat 
Just as we may try to find a way to escape the hot
weather by going somewhere where we can cool off; so
we may say that we try to beat the heat when politicians
or police or others and breathing down our necks and
putting on the pressure. “After planning the bank robbery, Jennings left town for a while to beat the heat of
police investigation and enquiry.” “I suggest you lay low
for a while to beat the heat of this controversy and wait
until things cool-ff and die down.” “The press and the
public were putting a lot of pressure on the Justice Minister for being too strict and, eventually, when he started 
becoming the victim of personal threats from underworld
sources, he went abroad to New Zealand to beat the
heat.” *

Beat the rap 
Get away with something; avoid punishment for what
you have been accused of; get off Scott free; avoid sentencing by the court. “They tried to prove that O. J. had
murdered his ex-wife and her boyfriend, but he got a
team of good lawyers and beat the rap.” “Slick paid
someone to bear false witness in court about his whereabouts at the time of the crime so he could beat the rap.”
“My wife could not testify against me in court, and so, I
was able to beat the rap.” *

Beat to a pulp 
Just as wood pulp is beaten into small fibers in order to
manufacture paper, so we may say that someone who has
been severely, physically beaten is beaten to a pulp.
“During the interrogation, the three police officers beat
the suspect to a pulp.” “Once I was mugged in Central
Park and got beaten to a pulp.” “When we were young,
my big brother often beat me to a pulp, but, now we are
older, he will beat the pulp out of anybody who threatens
me.” *

Beat your breast 
Just as a gorilla beats its breast to show its power, so a
person may be said to beat his breast when he is showing
off and pretending to be bigger than he is. “Sometimes,
beating your breast will scare off the competition and
help secure your territorial rights” “It is not often that
one has an occasion for beating one’s breast, so when the
occasion arises, why not enjoy it while the opportunity
lasts?” “Stop being so proud and beating your breast and
show a little humility.” *

Beating around the bush 
Talking around the subject; speaking indirectly before
finally coming to the point; taking too long working up
to the subject; instead of stating what you want, without
hesitation. “Stop beating around the bush. Don’t make
me sit here and wait to hear what you are leading up to.”
“I know you’ve got something in the back of your mind,
so stop beating around the bush and come out and say it
directly.” “He wanted to ask her to marry him, but he
spent half the evening beating around the bush before he
was finally able to pop the question.” *

Beat-it! 
Get out of here! “Go on! Beat it! Scram! Get lost! We
don’t want to see you around here any more.” “You’d
better beat it and get out of here before my Dad comes
home and finds you here alone with me.” “We’d better
beat it and get out of here before the police come and see
this fire we started.” *

Beats me 
I don’t know; it’s difficult for me to understand; cannot
figure it out; cannot comprehend it. “It beats me how the 
government can collect billions in taxes and yet still be
unable to support the superstructure of the country properly.” “It beats me how anybody in Bangkok can live on
an income of only five thousand a month.” “It beats me
to understand how a man with millions in the bank can
be too cheap to buy himself a new pair of shoes once and
a while.” *

Beat-up on 
Just as a gang of bullies may physically beat up on a single person, so a whole group may verbally criticize,
blame and attack a single member of that group. “The
members of the press have been really beating up on the
Prime Minister for his weak stand on human rights.”
“My colleagues really beat up on me for going on a leave
of absence during the peak period.” “My colleagues in
the linguistic community have been beating up on me for
my position on the insubstantiality of words and images
assumed to be fixed entities within permanent and fixed
linguistic structures.” *

Beck and call 
When someone can beckon you and order you what to
do, you are at his beck and call. “It is within the Prime
Minister’s rights to summon the finance minister at his
beck and call to order him to carry out a command in a
service that benefits the people.” In case of a medical
emergency a doctor is always ready to respond to the
beck and call of the hospital, twenty-four hours a day.”
“Get your own bloody beer from the fridge. I am not at
your beck and call. Remember that I am your wife and
not your servant.” *

Become attached to someone
Develop a liking and affection for a person. “As the
months go by, I am becoming more and more attached to
the girl who helps me with my math homework.” “When
I first met Mazy, she was just another person to me, but
the more I see of her, the more I become attached to her.”
“In the beginning, I was starting to become attached to
Pan, but when I saw how shallow and deceitful she was, I
soon let go of and lost my sense of attachment.” *

Become reconciled with 
Accept; get used to; go along with the way things, accepting them the way they are. “You’d better get reconciled to the fact that not everything in life is going to go
your way.” “When I first learned that I was going to die,
I didn’t want to accept the fact, but later on I became
reconciled to it.” “It took Ted’s father forty years to become reconciled with the fact that Ted was irreversibly
gay.” *

Become suspicious 
Begin to suspect that something is wrong. “I didn’t become suspicious that my son was taking drugs until I actually found some speed pills in one of his trouser pockets.” “When my husband started coming home late three 
nights a week, I became suspicious that he might be having an affair.” “I became suspicious that Mug was stealing money from my purse when I noticed that my loose
change kept disappearing.” *

Become unglued 
Fall apart emotionally, as though the pieces of your life
have figuratively become unglued. “A person can become psychologically unglued if he is placed under too
much psychological stress.” “Just a paper house may become unglued and fall apart, if it gets wet, so the mind
may become unglued and fall apart when the one we love
unexpectedly breaks our heart.” “After his wife left him
and his only son died of leukemia, Ferdinand became
unhinged and unglued, and his mind was never the same
again.” *

Become unhinged 
Just as door hinges may become so loose, the door
doesn’t open right anymore, so a person’s mind may become unhinged and cease to function properly, once he
becomes mentally unbalanced, disturbed or crazy. “After
his wife and children were burned-to-death in a fire that
Schwarz himself had accidentally started, he became unhinged and has not been right in the head ever since.”
“When her bridegroom failed to turn up for the wedding,
Catherine became totally unhinged, and has not returned
to normality for thirty-three years.” “When my wife
found out that I had sold her mother’s jewelry and lost
the money gambling, she became totally unhinged and
raged madly around the house, breaking a lot of glass and
furniture within the swath of her path.” *

Becoming accustomed to 
Getting used-to; familiar with; comfortable with. “I am
settling-in and becoming accustomed to my new job and
environment.” “Some foreigners need a transition period
in Thailand before they finally become accustomed to the
hot weather and the spicy food.” “Now that I have been
with you a while and have gradually warmed-up to you, I
am becoming accustomed to your touch.” *

Becoming acclimated 
Getting used to a new place; starting to feel at home;
learning new ways and customs; adjusting to a different
country and culture. “When my son, Hank, first went to
Military Academy, he had a little trouble adapting to the
disciplined environment, but after the first term, he
started becoming acclimated to it.” “If you are going to
go to Asia to do graduate work, I suggest you go there
and spend at least six months becoming acclimated and
learning the language, before beginning your first term of
studies.” “When an American goes to live in Germany, it
takes him a few months to get acclimated, because the
culture and customs are more harsh, strict and disciplined
and quite different from those he is used to.” * 

Bed of nails 
Just as an Indian fakir can lie on a bed of nails, so we
may say that a task or situation that is as difficult or painful is a bed of nails. .” “Psychological torment can be like
a bed of nails in which the more up-tight you get, the
more the pain prevails.” “Living with you is like lying on
a bed of nails. I am going to leave you before my tolerance fails.” “Becoming accustomed to marriage is like
getting used to lying on a bed of nails. At first, you don’t
think you can’t do it, but through patience and perseverance, it becomes a form of mental discipline that endures
and prevails.” *

Bed of roses 
State of happiness. “I want my life to be a bed of roses
not a bed of nails.” “Expecting life to be a bed of roses is
an illusion based on what one hopes and supposes.”
“Compared to what it was before, my life is now a bed of
roses.” “Cynthia dreams that married life will be a bed of
roses, but marriage is not as idyllic as she supposes.” *

Beef about something 
Complain. “He’s always beefing about one complaint or
other.” “If you don’t stop beefing about your problems,
I’m going to stop listening to you.” “I don’t know why
you are always beefing about the working regulations.
You should be happy that you are employed at all and
actually have a job.” *

Beef-up 
Strengthen; build-up: make stronger. “We’ll have to
beef-up our argument if we want to win the debate.” “If
we want to prevail over the enemy, we will have to beefup and reinforce our defenses.” “The military security
zone is insufficiently guarded, so our commander has
ordered us to beef-up our perimeter.” *

Been around the block 
Having had a lot of experience of life already and knowing how to deal with it. “Just as child is no longer afraid
of the outside world once he has been around the block,
so an adult who has seen the ways of the world will
know how his way around in the ways of the world.”
“She may look sweet and innocent and a little helpless,
but she has already been around the block and knows all
the tricks.” “You don’t have to explain the psychological
dangers of life to me. I have already been around the
block and know how to protect myself, believe me.” *

Been there, done that. 
Have traveled to all the famous places and done all the
related and expected activities. “Anxiety, doubt, existential despair and acute neurosis, —I have been there, done
that.” “I’ve climbed the Pyramids in Cairo; faced the
Western Wall, in Jerusalem; visited the Parthenon, in
Athens; stood in the Coliseum in Rome; been up the Eiffel Tower, in Paris; been there; done that, done it all! So
what?” “Big salary, big car, big yacht, big expectations,
big disappointments—I’ve been there and done that.” * 

Before one’s time 
Prematurely; unexpectedly. “It’s always sad when one
has to die before one’s time.” “Hopkins died before his
time at the age of forty-six.” “The best thing about trusting wholly in fate is that you never have to fear that you
will die before your time.” *

Before your very eyes 
Bearing immediate witness to something that has happened right in front of you. “It’s always scary when you
see someone killed before your very eyes.” “The accused
pulled out a pistol and shot Marilyn Sykes in the middle
of her chest, three times, right before my very eyes!” “It
is amazing the things that some people will shamelessly
do right before your very eyes just in order to make a dishonest dollar.” *

Beg on bended-nee 
Traditionally one had to go down on one knee and beg
for a nobleman’s favor, but, nowadays, we beg for a
woman’s favor. “One used to have to get down and beg
on bended-knee to plead for a pardon in a court of royalty.” “I beseech you, I beg on bended knee to show me
mercy and pity me!” “In order to get your mother to
marry me, I had to get down and beg on bended-knee.” *

Beg the question 
Not answer directly; put-off addressing the question;
avoid the issue; try to squeeze-out of facing a problem.
“Don’t try to beg the question. Just give me a ‘yes’ or
‘no’ answer.” “The government, instead of facing the
issue and saying directly how they plan to resolve the
issue, continues to beg the question and talk political
mumbo-jumbo.” “Candice keeps bringing up the question of when Charley will marry her, but, so far, Charley
has been able to successfully beg the question.” *

Beginner’s luck 
Win or succeed the very first time you try. “Ted won the
lottery the first time he ever bought a ticket; it was a pure
example of beginner’s luck.” “The first time I played
golf, I shot a hole-in-one! That was real beginner’s luck.”
“I cannot claim any credit for hitting the bull’s eye on my
very first try. It was just dumb beginner’s luck.” *

Beginning of the end 
What is now happening is the start of a process that will
lead to a bad end. “When Ivan started speculating on currency fluctuations, he hoped he would get rich quick, but,
actually, it was the beginning of the end.” “When you
take your first injection of heroin, it is already the beginning of the end.” “When you first get the idea of cheating
on your wife, that is already the beginning of the end of
happily married life.” *

Beginning to gel 
Just as jelly is liquid at first, before it begins to gel, so the
forming of an idea may take time before it settles in the
mind and becomes firm and clear; so we finally visualize
an idea; beginning to dawn on the mind; starting to get
the picture. “When you first started explaining, I couldn’t 
follow your gist, but, now, it’s slowly beginning to gel.”
“When I first listened to your logical reasoning, I
couldn’t get the picture, but, now, it is finally beginning
to gel.” “I couldn’t understand the Professor’s Potworthy’s theorem at first, but, by now, it’s finally beginning
to gel.” *

Behind closed doors 
In a secret meeting, only for insiders, in a room secured
from outside intrusion. “The members of the Supreme
Council had a confidential discussion behind closed
doors and voted by secret ballot, and nobody outside the
room ever learned what happened there.” “Sometimes,
the Cabinet Ministers have top-secret meeting, behind
closed doors, to discuss matters of national security.”
“The judge called the lawyers for the prosecution and
defense into his chambers and, behind closed doors, instructed them on the finer points of the law.” *

Behind the scenes 
Just as in a theatre there is a lot of action going on backstage behind the painted-screens and wings in preparation for the next scene, so we may say that in politics or
business or private life, the is a lot of unseen and maybe
even secret activities going on behind the scenes. “I am
always afraid that people are plotting to harm me behind
the scenes.” “In Mr. Taksin’s government, there was always a lot of political manipulation going on behind the
scenes.” “In big business, the giants of industry are always pulling strings behind the scenes.” *

Behind the times 
Old-fashioned; not up-to-date. “My father is somewhat
behind the times because he is unable to accept the attitudes of today’s youth-culture.” “Old Holmes is somewhat behind the times because he is not able to keep
abreast of all the new technical developments.” “Professor Higgenbottom is somewhat behind the times because
he has not been keeping up-to-date in his reading and
research.” *

Behind your back 
Not to your face, in front of you, but done or spoken behind your back, secretly, surreptitiously. “Don’t talk
about me behind my back. If you have something to say,
tell me straight to my face.” “To my surprise, I discovered that, behind my back, my wife had withdrawn all
money from our joint bank account and booked a oneway flight to Bermuda.” “I soon after learned that my
assistant manager was also working behind my back,
without my knowledge, to juggle the accounting data in
order to make me look like a crook so he could take the
money himself and run off with my wife. What a life this
is! Can you believe it?” *

Beholden to someone 
Grateful; feeling a debt of gratitude to someone; owing
them a favor. “My family and I are beholden to you for 
all the help you have given us.” “I feel beholden to Professor Newell for recommending me to do graduate work
in Germany.” “Nowadays, I like to be independent, and I
never want to feel beholden to anyone.” *

Being grouchy 
Being bad-tempered; complaining; ill-tempered; grumpy;
crabby; cranky; irritable. “Stop being so grouchy. I’m
fed-up with your sitting around in a bad mood complaining all the time.” “My supervisor is so ill-tempered and
grouchy that it is very hard for me to work with her. I
wish I knew what her problem was.” “Although some old
people are grumpy and grouchy, just as many senior citizens are friendly and placid and peaceful.” *

Being stonewalled 
Being blocked from going forward, as if someone were
building a stone wall right up in front of you. “I am being
stonewalled in my efforts to get the Freemasonic Fraternity to accept female candidates.” “I’m trying to convince the boss to implement a staff-incentive plan, but he
keeps stonewalling me.” “We’ve been meeting resistance
from the government committee, and they have stonewalled our petition for a new building permit.” *

Belabor the point 
Keep talking for too long on a single topic in an extended
discussion; overstress your view; go on and on about the
point you are trying to make. “If you insist on belaboring
the point, it will just be one more reason for committee to
turn against you.” “Don’t belabor the point. I see what
you’re getting at and I have heard quite enough.” “Politicians occasionally waste valuable time belaboring the
point they wish to make, even when they know the final
vote will go against them.” *

Belated-apology 
A delayed apology; a late excuse; an expression of regret
or an admission-of-guilt that comes a bit too late to be
acceptable. “Please accept my belated apologies for not
attending your wedding.” “Brother Cantwell sends his
belated apologies for not being able to attend the convocation.” “A belated apology is no excuse for admitting
you just plain forgot about attending the funeral!” *

Belittle someone 
Speak about someone with humiliating intentions to
make him look small; speak about a person in a harmful
way to reveal that you think he is inferior to you; to show
you look down on someone by making disparaging remarks. “A good teacher would never belittle a student in
front of the class.” “Some ungracious girls belittle others
in their social group to make themselves feel more important.” “Just because you have been born wealthy, that
does not give you the right to belittle someone who has
not had the same privileges and opportunities as you.” *

Belligerent attitude 
Defiant; confrontational; disrespectful; aggressive; quarrelsome; argumentative; loud-mouthed mental state. “I 
won’t stand for your belligerent, defiant attitude, and, if
you continue to be disrespectful towards me, I’ll knock
your block off.” “This boy has a belligerent attitude and a
tendency towards outwardly aggressive behavior, so I
think he needs some psychological counseling.” “With
such a belligerent and angry attitude, you will not win
any respect or support, so tone it down a bit, and try to be
a little more respectful towards others.” *

Belly-up 
Just as an overturned ship’s hull may be said to be floating ‘belly-up,’ so we may say that a venture or business
investment has gone belly-up when it fails to achieve
success. “I invested three-hundred thousand in a fish and
chip shop, but it went belly-up, and I lost everything.”
“After my first attempt at business went belly-up, I went
back to school and did a MBA.” “We invested a lot of
money in trying to save the company from bankruptcy,
but it still went belly-up eventually.” *

Below the belt 
Just as in boxing, it is against the rules and unfair to hit
someone below the belt, so, in society, it is considered to
be unfair to mention thing about someone that shows his
character in a bad light. “I dare say old chap, making reference to my sexual preference is hitting below the belt,
wouldn’t you say?” “Belittling a fellow because of his
Irish working-class origins is really hitting below the
belt.” “Slandering me for my mistakes in my first marriage thirty years ago is really hitting me below the belt.”*

Bend in the wind 
Just as a bamboo branch bends in the wind, so we may
say that a person bends in the wind if he gives way to
pressure. “The problem with the Prime Minister is that he
bends in the wind. He seems to agree with whatever is
the popular opinion at the moment.” “A manager who
bends in the wind, depending on who he is talking, to
will not win much respect in the end.” “Sometimes, it is
wise to be able to bend in the wind when the only other
alternative is to break under pressure.” *

Bend someone’s ear 
Make someone listen to you who is not particularly interested; talk a lot to someone who doesn’t wish to pay attention; complain to someone who doesn’t particularly
care. “Let me bend your ear for a while and beg you for a
favor.” “Francine is always bending my ear about how
she is unhappy in her marriage, and I’m tired of hearing
about it.” “I’m going to approach the Managing Partner
and bend his ear about how he could be improving our
working environment.” *

Bend the rules 
Not to follow the rules exactly; not to be too strict in following the rules; be loose in interpreting the rules.
“Sometimes it does no harm to bend the rules a bit when 
you have to adapt to a new situation or occasion.” It
doesn’t do any harm to bend the rules a bit if you see
someone has realized his mistake and already learned a
lesson.” “The problem with bending the rules is that people will always follow the exception rather than the rule.”*

Bending over backwards 
Doing everything possible to accomplish the goal of
pleasing the other person. “Be sure to bend over backwards and do everything within your power to please and
satisfy the client, because we cannot afford to lose his
business to the competition.” I’ve been bending over
backwards trying to please my father, but no matter how
hard I try, he always seems to be demanding more.”
“I’ve been bending over backwards doing every thing to
please my husband, but he seems to be taking it all for
granted and shows not even the slightest appreciation.”*

Benefit of the doubt 
When a debatable question or accusation cannot be clarified, one side has to give the other the benefit of the
doubt; in other words, leave the question open until the
result has been decided and declared. “Under the law,
when we cannot prove a person is guilty, we have to give
him the benefit of the doubt and assume he is innocent
until proven guilty.” “My wife cannot prove I am lying,
so she is forced to give me the benefit of the doubt, even
though she doesn’t completely trust me.” “We do not
know if your claims about your skills are true, but we
will give you the benefit of the doubt and watch you
work and keep an eye on you until we see evidence of
what you are able to do.” *

Benign condition 
A benign condition is not malignant and, therefore,
unlikely to cause death; a benign disease is one carried in
the body but unlikely to become a matter of serious concern; although there are some side-effects, the disease is
unlikely to be fatal. “My third wife developed a growth
in her uterus, but fortunately for her, after testing, it
turned out to be a benign condition.” “My second wife
had a tumor in her breast, but fortunately, when they cut
it out for testing, it proved to be a benign condition.”
“My first wife had a benign condition of spinal meningitis, when we were first married, which paralyzed the
functions in the right side of her body, but after she divorced me and went back home to England to live in the
happy home of her parents, the symptoms went away.” *

Bent cop 
Just as metal may be bent by a workman by applying
pressure in a certain place, so a policeman may be corrupted by taking bribes from criminals. “My father accepted bribes from the Mafia and became a bent cop.” 
“Some people plan to join the police force just so they
can enjoy the benefits of being a bent cop.” “Fortunately,
in Thailand, there are no bent cops.” *

Bent double 
With head-bent-down, below the waistline, caused either
by laughter or pain. “The people in the audience were
bent double with laughter after hearing the comedy routine.” “My brother tells such big whopping lies that the
rest of just stand paralyzed, bent double with laughter.”
“We could see blindly stumbling British soldiers bent
double with pain during the German gas attack.” *

Bent-out-of-shape 
Momentarily psychologically disturbed or in an altered
state of mind due to anger or disapproval or psychedelic
drugs. “When you so strongly disapprove of something
that your mind is not in a normal state people often say
you are bent-out-of-shape.” “When my Mom found that I
was addicted to heroin, she got her head all bent out of
shape.” “Back in the 1960s the Hippies used to take psychedelic drugs and get bent out of shape as a way of protesting against the social values of the establishedgeneration.” *

Beside the point 
Not significant; of no consequence; not relevant; off
topic; having nothing to do with the matter under discussion. “When the issue is that all people born should have
equal human rights, the fact that I am a woman is beside
the point.” “When it comes to distinguishing between
right and wrong, economic motives are beside the point.”
“Don’t get off topic and forget that when it comes protecting the environment, protecting jobs in industry is
beside the point.” *

Best bet 
The best option or possibility for leading to success.
“The best bet for investment is always in blue chip
stocks.” “When it comes to high quality automotive engineering, Porsche is your best bet.” “Investing in government bonds is always the best bet for guaranteeing
long term earnings.” *

Best of both possible worlds
The best qualities of two cultures or ways of life. “I wish
I could be both a playboy and a gentleman and thereby
take advantage of the best of both possible words.” “I
am Canadian, but I grew up under the influence of English culture, and I tried to retain the best characteristics of
both possible worlds.” “German-Americans often find
themselves combining the best of both possible worlds in
their daily habits and customs and wouldn’t want to be
forced to choose between one side and the other.” *

Best of the bunch 
The best person in the group. “From all of my students in
all of my classes Pet is the best of the bunch.” “From all
the football players in the league, Baker is the best of the
bunch.” “Of all the politicians in the Senate, Conrad At-
kins is the best in the bunch.” *

Better late than never 
It is better to arrive late than not to come at all. “If you
can’t get away from your desk to attend the meeting exactly on time, come a little late. It’s better late than
never.” “Paula got married when she was thirty two, and
her comment was, ‘Better late than never.’” “She had a
baby at thirty-three, which is a little late but better late
than never.” *

Better luck next time 
When you fail in attempt at something, do not be discouraged, but, rather, hope for better luck in your next
attempt. “I’m sorry that you didn’t win the gold in the
Olympics, but I wish you better luck next time.” “My
first marriage was a total failure, but I am hoping for better luck next time.” “I didn’t get promoted to partner this
year, but I am hoping for better luck next time.” *

Better move fast! 
Get out of a place quickly before someone comes and
something bad happens to you. “We had better move fast
and get out of here before someone starts shooting at us!”
“You had better move fast and get the job done before
the superintendent comes around and gives you a kick in
the ass!” “We’d better move fast and get out of its path
before the avalanche sweeps us away.” *

Better safe than sorry 
It is better to avoid taking a chance than it is to take a
risk that you will later regret; take precaution and be
careful not to do anything you will regret afterwards.
“Use a condom when you have casual sex. It’s better to
be safe than sorry,” “When riding a motorcycle, wear a
helmet. It’s better to be safe than sorry.” “When working
on a construction site, you must follow regulations and
wear a hard hat. Remember, it’s better to be safe than
sorry.” *

Better yourself 
To improve your social or financial condition. “The good
thing about free public education is that it gives people a
chance to better themselves.” “No matter how old you
are, you should never stop learning and never stop trying
to better yourself.” “No matter how low you start off on
the social ladder, if you are honest and work hard, with a
little luck, you will have a good chance at bettering yourself.” *

Better-off dead 
Sometimes life seems so miserable that we feel we would
be better-off if we were dead; better to be dead and free
of pain than have to be born and suffer again. “I curse the
day of my birth. I feel I’d be better-off dead.” “When I
said I’d be better-off dead, some people actually agreed
with me.” “Teenagers often go through a stage where
they feel they would be better off dead, but, with time,
the feeling passes, and, eventually, they start to feel
they’re glad they are still alive.” * 

Better-off in the long run 
What may seem bad now will prove to be of help and
benefit over the course of time. “If you rid yourself of
that woman now, it may seem painful at first, but you
will be better-off in the long run.” “If you stay in school
until you are in your twenties, you do not earn money
during this period, but once you graduate, you can demand a higher salary and be better-off in the long run.”
“We were anxious about selling off our affiliate companies, at first, due to fears about decreased revenue, but
our financial advisors proved to be right, and the firm
was better-off in the long run.” *

Better-than-nothing 
Even a little something is better than nothing at all. “After five months of selling fried fish in the market, I only
had five hundred Baht overall profit, but even something
is better than nothing.” “Sell those fifty kilos of the bananas at any price, now, for any price, before they go rotten; even a little something is better than nothing.” “My
father only left me fifty-thousand Baht in his last will and
testimony, but even a little something is better than nothing.” *

Between the devil and the deep blue sea
With no acceptable alternative to choose from; in a paradoxical situation; right in the middle of a moral dilemma
with no acceptable options. “If I don’t move to Korat
with the company, I’ll lose my job; if I don’t stay in
Bangkok, I’ll lose my girlfriend: I’m between the devil
and the deep blue sea.” “If my girlfriend finds out about
my wife, she’ll be disappointed in me; if my wife finds
out about my girlfriend, she’ll leave me. I’m caught between the devil and the deep blue sea.” “If I get caught
using company assets on the side to pay off my debts, I’ll
be fired; if I stop using the company’s assets, I’ll go even
deeper into debt, so I’m caught between the devil and the
deep blue sea.” *

Between the lines 
Something that is understood from reading what is written, even though it is not directly stated in the words in
the lines. “From your letter, I can read between the lines
that you no longer love me any more. “In Malvolio’s
speech, we can read between the lines that he is a man of
evil intent.” “Although you did not actually come out and
state it directly in the document, I can read between the
lines that you want the contract to be one-sided, giving
you more rights and benefits than me.” *

Between the sheets 
In bed wit a sexual partner. “Nobody knows what is going on between the sheets.” “I’d like to get you between
the sheets.” “It is nobody’s business what goes on between the sheets between mutually consenting adults.” *

Between you and me 
Let’s keep this a secret just between you and me. “Let’s
keep the details of this discussion between you and me 
and not tell anyone else.” “If I just tell you candidly what
I think, between you and me, I sense that you are lying.”
“Confidentially, between you and me, I think the client is
purposely hiding something, but that is only my opinion.” *

Beyond a shadow of a doubt
Proven with absolute certainty. “It has been proven beyond the shadow of a doubt that there is evidence to indicate the presence of water having existed on the planet
Mars somewhere in the past.” “McIver’s fingerprints on
the detonator prove beyond the shadow of a doubt that he
must have triggered the device.” “We know now, with
the help of DNA testing beyond the shadow of a doubt
that the whole of the human race has evolved from only
an original eight birth-mothers.” *

Beyond contempt 
So low as not even to be worthy of disapproval and distain. “Touching your own daughter sexually is an immoral act of human indecency that is even beyond contempt.” “Anyone who would stoop to murder his own
father for financial gain is absolutely beyond contempt.”
“Your selfish motives in contesting your father’s Last
Will and Testament will are beyond contempt.” *

Beyond expectation 
Better than expected. “Earnings in the first quarter were
far and beyond expectation.” “The total sum of the campaign donations was above and beyond anyone’s expectation.” “I was happy when I first learned I was pregnant,
but the joy I now feel at becoming a mother was beyond
expectation.” *

Beyond help 
Impossible to restore a person or situation back to normal
not possible to remedy a fault or habit; beyond redemption. “Our little sister has become so addicted to drugs
that she seems to be almost beyond help.” “My original
father was such an alcoholic that my mother finally realized that he was beyond help and divorced him.” “Our
company is trying to restructure its finances, but the bank
says that the situation has developed to a point where it is
beyond help.” *

Beyond imagination 
Totally beyond the capacity of what the mind can imagination! “This is the most exciting experience of my life.
It’s beyond imagination, beyond my wildest dreams!”
“The mathematical proportion of the number of people
who could contact AIDS is beyond the imagination.”
“The horrors of hell are totally beyond imagination.” *

Beyond me 
Too hard to understand; it is beyond my level of comprehension; don’t ask me; I don’t know. “I cannot understand Einstein’s theory of relativity. It is beyond me.” “I
was never able to understand the physics of what happens between the pressure points of two undersea tectonic plates.” “It is beyond me how a man can find 
money for his second wife but not give anything for the
upkeep of his children.” *

Beyond reasonable doubt 
Almost established as fact, excluding the possibility of
logical doubt. “I know now, beyond a reasonable doubt
that you are not my real birth father.” “We know now
that beyond a reasonable doubt that there are traces of
life having existed on he planet Mars.” “It has been established beyond a reasonable doubt that the power of
prayer helps improve mental and physical health.” *

Beyond reproach 
Totally free of any sort of blame so no one can criticize
you. “My husband is the only man I have ever seen who
is totally beyond reproach.” “You may only find one
politician in a million who is beyond reproach.” “No one
who is attached to the senses is totally beyond shame and
blame and reproach.” *

Beyond the horizon 
Further away than you can see, both literally and figuratively. “No matter how intently you look at the sea, you
cannot see beyond the horizon.” “Just as you cannot see
what is beyond the horizon, so you cannot look ahead
and see what your life may be in the future.” “We are
trying to speculate what our final financial costs might be
but, due to unknown factors, we cannot see beyond the
horizon, so we can only estimate what the costs will
eventually be.” *

Beyond the shadow of doubt
With no uncertainty; with absolute certainty; beyond
question; with no reason for doubt—for sure. “We know
now, beyond the shadow of a doubt, that there are traces
of life on the planet Mars.” “Recent tests have shown beyond a shadow of a doubt that our father has bone cancer.” “The recount of the ballots in the presidential election has shown beyond the shadow of doubt that the incumbent has won by a narrow margin of 2.8 percent.” *
Beyond your depth Just as a swimmer can walk out into deep water beyond
his depth, literally, so a person can be beyond his depth,
intellectually, psychologically or financially. “I am afraid
that when I signed-p for this metaphysics class, I got in a
bit beyond my depth.” “Be careful about your relationship with this woman; I’m afraid you are getting in psychologically beyond your depth.” “When the foreign currency rates rose so dramatically, I suddenly found myself
beyond my depth financially.” *

Beyond your means 
More expensive than you can afford. “I found that keeping both a country house and a flat in the city was beyond my means, so I decided I would have to give up one
or the other.” “I used to keep a yacht in Monte Carlo, but,
with time, I found it was beyond my means financially,
so I had to give it up.” “I found that trying to keep up
with the rich on the ladder of high society was beyond 
my means, so I had to set a limit to the number of social
events I could attend.” *

Beyond your wildest dreams
Beyond imagination and then some. “Come on baby, I’m
going to show you a night that is beyond your wildest
dreams.” “Bill Gates has suffered a success that was beyond his wildest dreams.” “I have reached a level of bliss
and happiness in my life that was beyond my wildest
dreams!” *

Bide your time 
Wait a while; don’t be impatient; be patient; don’t be in
such a hurry; wait for the right opportunity; wait and see.
“Don’t be impatient about finding true love. You just
have to bide your time and wait for the right husband or
wife to appear in your life.” “Sometimes, you can’t hurry
success. You just have to keep trying and bide your time
and wait for fortune to come your way.” “I was just biding my time, at home, doing nothing much at all, when
all of a sudden the phone rang and I got the best job offer
of a lifetime.” *

Big and burly 
Tall and heavily-built, broad-shouldered; brawny, muscular, husky; hefty. “If you want to be a rugby player, it’s
better if you’re big and burly.” “My older brother, Butch,
is such a big, brawny, burly, heavy, muscular chap, that
no one would ever want to pick a fight with him.”
“Billybob is a big, burly, brawny bruiser who would beat
your brains out with the balls of his fists just for the fun
of it.” *

Big boob 
A big stupid, clumsy, dumb man. “You big, clumsy, stupid boob! Why don’t you watch were you are going?”
“What a big clumsy stupid boob! Look at the mess you
have made now!” “He’s just a big, harmless boob, without any brains, so when he does something stupid, try not
to get annoyed with him.” *

Big Brother is watching 
The government or controlling agency or power that is
aware of your every movement; “Be careful what you
say about the government. Big Brother is watching you.”
“Be careful what you write in your e-mails and what web
sites you visit on your computer. Remember, Big Brother
is watching you.” “Big Brother is watching you in everything you do, so don’t do anything to draw any suspicion
down upon yourself in anything you do.” *

Big bully 
Just as a bull is big and strong and has enough power to
push itself in anywhere it wants, sometimes, we describe
a person as behaving like a big bully. “There is always
one big, fat kid in class who uses his size to bully and
push other kids around.” “Big schoolyard bullies are usually cowards at heart, so the first thing to do when you
see one is just give him a quick kick in the balls so he
will leave you alone from the start.” “Figuratively speak-
ing, the big bully on the block can be a kid or sometimes
a cop or sometimes even a gang boss or Mafia member.”*

Big time 
Being in the big time means being in the big leagues in
sports or entertainment or corporate business. “Many little league baseball players have the secret dream of one
day playing “big time” in the big leagues.” “When she
was young, no one ever expected that Julia would one
day make it, big time, in the entertainment industry.”
“When Steve Jobs first started writing software programs
no one would have ever expected that one day he would
be one of the big time operators in the computer industry.” *

Big wheel 
Very important, financially powerful person with a lot of
force and influence to make things happen his way. “One
day I want to be a big wheel in some big multinational
corporate company.” “When a tiny little cog acts like a
big wheel, don’t take him too seriously; he’s no big
deal!” “Last week we had some big wheel come through
here on a world-wide inspection tour, and everybody was
on the tips of their toes.” *

Big-boobs 
Large-breasts. “Hey boys! Look at the big boobs on that
girl.” “Fashion models never have big boobs.” “Air hostesses cannot have really big boobs because big boobs
would get in the way, while serving drinks.” *

Bill of goods 
A big financial lie; a fraudulent promise of goods intended to cheat the payee; promise under false-pretenses.
“I’m no fool. I can recognize false promises when I hear
them. Don’t try to sell me a bill of goods.” “I’m not going to pay the invoice until I receive delivery of the
goods. You cannot sell me a bill of goods without my
signing for them first.” “Cora’s first husband sold her a
bill of goods and got her to invest a million dollars in a
house that didn’t even exist.” *

Bird-brain 
Someone stupid with a brain as small as a bird. “What a
bird-brain! Where did you ever get a stupid idea like
that?” “Sarah looks very pretty, but she’s just a birdbrain.” “I may look stupid, but I’m no bird-brain. Don’t
ask me to pay the invoice until I have seen the goods.” *

Birds and the bees 
A polite way of referring to what people do when they
get together sexually and perform the action that produces babies. “When I was fourteen, my father took me
aside and explained to me all about the birds and the
bees.” “Manley’s parents were too ashamed to tell him
about the birds and the bees so he had to find out from
his friends at school.” “Nobody ever explained to Karen
about the birds and the bees, so that by the age of sixteen,
she found herself pregnant.” * 

Birds of a feather flock together.
Just as birds of one species will gather into a flock and
fly together, so we say that people of similar inclinations
get together with people who like to do the same things
that they do. “Thinkers like to sit and talk to thinkers, and
drinkers like to sit and talk to drinkers, which illustrates
the old adage that birds of a feather flock together.” “My
Mom is always warning me to stay away from drug dealers and their friends; she’s always repeating that birds of
a feather flock together: like attracts like.” “Dishonest
politicians regardless of party or other loyalties are always willing to get together to do some dirty deal if it
will bring them personal profit. As the saying goes,
‘Birds of a feather flock together.” *

Birds-eye-view 
The way things look from high above, the way a bird
would see them. “If you can afford to take a Helicopter
tour over New York City, you will get a bird’s-eye-view
of the skyscrapers, the river, and the Brooklyn bridge.” “I
used to work on the twenty-first floor, and I thought that
was high, but, when we moved to the forty-ninth floor,
we had a bird’s-eye-view.” “If you buy a ticket and take
the lift up to the top of the Eiffel Tower, in Paris, you
will get a panoramic, bird’s-eye-view of the citysurroundings.” *

Birthday suit 
Completely naked; as naked as the day you were born;
stark naked; without anything on; any clothing. “Here
you can see a photo of me in my birthday suit by the pool
in the back garden when I was only three.” “Rumford
was arrested for indecent exposure for running through
the town square in his birthday suit.” “When Charles
came home, he found his wife and his brother swimming
in the pool in only their birthday suits.” *

Bit by bit 
Little by little; a little bit at a time. “It is only possible to
eat an elephant if you freeze dry it and eat it bit by bit
day by day.” “I’m having a hard time finding time to finish my translation, but I keep working on it bit by bit.”
“Often, the best way to clear away a big job is to do it
one small task at a time and keep proceeding bit by bit.”*

Bite back 
Just as one dog bites another and the other bites back, so
one person can snap at another using harsh words and the
other can bite back with an even nastier verbal attack. “If
you say harsh things to me don’t be surprised if I say
hurtful words just to bite back.” “If people know that you
will snap and bite back, they will be careful not to make
you the victim of a verbal attack.” “Be careful what you
say to Ellie. If you say anything to offend her feelings
when she is feeling moody and sensitive, she is sure to
bite and snap back.” * 

Bite the dust 
Be gunned-down in the street ; hit the dirt, falling flat on
your face; shot-down, both literally and figuratively. “In
old western movies, we see many cowboy gun-slingers
get shot down and bite the dust.” “When the sheriff wins
the shootout in the movies, another bad guy bites the
dust” “I got shot down by the board of governors and my
big plan hit the dust.” *

Bite the hand that feeds you
Just as a dog might bite the hand of somebody who is
reaching out and feeding it food, so a person may figuratively be said to sink his teeth into someone who offers
him a helping hand; harm your own benefactor; hurt the
person you depend upon; betray the trust of one who is
supporting you. “As long as you live under his roof, be
careful not to hurt your father’s feelings with defiant and
angry words. Be careful not to bite the hand that feeds
you.” “Going against the wishes of your benefactor is
like biting the hand that feeds you.” “Demonstrating defiantly against an employer who pays your salary is like
biting the hand that feeds you.” *

Bite your tongue 
Sometimes, when you want to say something bad or
cheeky or hurtful, it is better to bite your tongue rather
than say what you’re thinking. “Whenever you want to
come out and say something nasty and hurtful, bite your
tongue instead.” “I was just about to call my father a sonof-a-bitch, when I thought better of it and bit my
tongue.” “When your manager says something you don’t
agree with, if you want to keep your job, it is better to
bite your tongue rather than say what you are thinking.”*

Bite-off more than you can chew
Just as children sometimes take a giant-sized bite of
sticky toffee candy which fills their mouths so full that
the bite is bigger than they can possibly chew, so, by
comparison, we may say that we overestimate our ability
to do a task or job and later find it is too big for us and
totally beyond our capacity or ability.” “When I accepted
this position, I didn’t know I was biting-off more than I
could chew.” “When I married you, I didn’t know I was
biting-off more than I could chew.” “When Colin Powell
accepted his posting in the government, he did not know
he was biting-off more than he could chew.” *

Bitter end 
Just as an anchor is attached to a boat by a metal shackle
at the bitter end of a long chain which restrains and resists the full, powerful force of the sea, so a person may
be said to hang on to the bitter end in a struggle despite
the overpowering forces against him. “The bank is trying
to seize our company, but we are going to fight them until the bitter end.” “Dad had a long fight against prostrate
cancer but he hung on with dignity and courage to the 
bitter end.” “Japanese forces had been given orders to
resist the American attack and defend their position right
to the bitter end, until the very last man was dead.” *

Bitter pill to swallow 
Just as some pills are bitter to swallow but good for you
in the end, so are some truths. “Admitting you are wrong
and being forced to apologize may be a bitter pill to
swallow, but it is character-building in the end.” “Accepting salary wage cuts is a bitter pill to swallow, but
it’s better than losing our jobs altogether in the end.”
“Recognizing and admitting the shortcomings in my performance was a bitter pill to swallow, at the time, but
later it helped me to improve the way I functioned as a
team player.” *

Bizarre behavior 
Acting in a strange, weird, out-of-the ordinary, whacky
way. “Salvador Dali had a long handle-brush moustache
which he twisted upwards for effect, and he became
known for his strange surrealistic paintings and bizarre
behavior.” “If you don’t stop dying your hair pink and
piercing your nose and lips. and acting in a bizarre manner, you will have to leave home and find another place
to live.” “Caroline seemed to be a totally normal person,
but sometimes, when she was under the influence of hallucinogenic drugs, she would do bizarre things like stand
on the edge of the roof, believing she could fly.” *

Blabber-mouth 
A person who is always chattering and gossiping about
the secrets of other people; a big-mouth; a gossip and
busybody who tells everybody everything that he should
be keeping to himself. “You’re such a big blabbermouth. Why did you tell everybody I was afraid I was
pregnant? Now the whole town knows about it.” “I know
what a big blabber-mouth you are, but if you reveal my
secret to anyone, I guarantee, I’ll cut out your tongue.” “I
was hoping our teacher wouldn’t find out it was me whoput the porno-poster in his desk-drawer, but Kurt is such
a blabber-mouth, he couldn’t resist squealing on me.” *

Black and white 
Exact opposites; bad or good; one side or the other; opposite extremes. “Nothing in this world is either black or
white, so we should never look at things in opposite extremes.” “Nothing is ever as clear as black and white because there are always two sides to every story.” “As
they say, ‘Things are never black or white. Everything is
grey.”
Black mark against you An offence on your record which affects your reputation.
“Some people believe that getting a divorce is a black
mark against you.” “The fact that you were caught cheating on an exam will be a black mark against you for as
long as remain a student at this school.” “The fact that
you were arrested for smoking hash when you were a 
teenager is a black mark against you that has followed
you all through your life.” *

Black picture 
Pessimistic outlook; dismal prospect. “I don’t want to
paint a black picture, but I’m afraid you are setting your
hopes a little high.” “The finance minister has painted a
black picture of the way the economy will go if we do
not decrease tax rates to encourage increased spending.”
“My lawyer has painted a black picture of the judgment
that will be handed down by the court, and I shall just
have to wait and see just how bad it will be.” *

Black sheep of the family 
To be the only person in a respectable and successful
family, who hasn’t achieved success, but who, instead,
has proven to be a disappointment; has not had a distinguished career; who has turned out to be a drug addict,
dealer or criminal, poet, musician or artist. “Everyone in
my family is a lawyer or a banker, except me. I wanted to
become an opera singer, but I didn’t have enough discipline to make it to the top, so I’m the black sheep of the
family.” I come from a long line of Puritan clergymen,
but I turned against the teachings of the Church and have
become non-believer, so, now, I’m the black sheep of the
family.” *

Blank check 
Just as one may give a person a blank, signed check and
allow him to fill in any amount he wishes, so one may be
said to give someone full freedom and authority to decide
whatever he wants. “My husband has literally given me a
signed, blank check to finance the re-design and refurnishing of our Upper Manhattan apartment.” “The administrative council has given the architect a blank check
to design the museum structure any creative way he visualizes it.” “The President has given the Secretary for
Civil Defense a blank check to anything and everything
necessary to restore civil obedience.” *

Blank look on your face 
Looking surprised and stupid, as though you do not know
what to do or say. “When I told my wife I wanted to divorce her and marry her sister, she just looked at me with
a blank look on her face not knowing quite what to say.”
“When we pulled off his towel in the locker room
shower, he just stood there stark naked in front of the
boys with a blank look on his face not knowing what to
do.” “Don’t just stand there with a blank look on your
face looking stupid! Do something before the roof falls
in.” *

Blast away 
Means that questioners may ask anything they want on
any sensitive subject that they wish. “The Chairman said
he was ready to answer any and all questions and told the
Members of the Board to start blasting away.” “Darling, I
have nothing to hide from you. Go ahead and blast away. 
Ask me anything you want, and I will give you an honest
answer.” “The President told journalists that he would
answer any question they wanted to ask about National
Security matters and all they had to do was blast away.”*

Blast to smithereens 
Just as a bomb can explode a metal object apart into
nothing but small flying particles and pieces, so we can
say that we are going to blast a person (or enemy) to bits
as punishment for what he has said or done. “If you tell
anyone what I have told you, I’ll blast you to smithereens.” “When I find the thief who stole my class ring, I’ll
blast the little bastard to smithereens.” “As a US Army
tank, filled with soldiers, was rolling into the town
square, it was suddenly blasted to smithereens by a terrorist anti-tank rocket.” *

Blatant criticism Unashamed, barefaced, deliberate and obviously aggressive censure and disapproval. “The blatant criticism of
the Prime Minister’s economic strategy was spearheaded
by the leader of the opposition.” “I find your blatant
criticism to be offensive and consider it to be nothing
more than a personal attack.” “I’ve had quite enough of
your blatant criticism, and I would like to quietly ask you
politely to shut your stupid mouth.” *

Blatant lie 
An, unashamed, bare-faced, deliberate, obvious lie. “The
president claims that he has never purposely intended to
hurt anyone in his life, but, if we look at his political record, we see that this is obviously a blatant and transparent lie.” “When the defendant swears that he is innocent
of child abuse, he is telling a blatant, obvious and outrageous lie.” “When I tell my wife I have never even
looked at another woman, she knows it is a bare-faced,
blatant lie.” *

Blaze a trail 
Just as in the forest or jungle one can be the first one to
cut a swath; clear a path; mark the way leaving signs for
others to follow, so a scientist or thinker can show a way
or blaze a trail for others to follow. “Through the example of my life’ I hope to be able to blaze a trail for others
to follow in developing themselves into morally perfect
men.” “The dream of every young medical researcher is
to be able to blaze a trail for others to follow in the development of clinical research.” “After the basic insights
of Sigmund Freud, it was Karl Jung who blazed the trail
leading into the more expansive development of modern
psychotherapy.” *

Blazing inferno 
A big fire that is comparable to the intensely hot, burning
heat of hell. “Some people imagine Hell as a blazing inferno into which wicked sinners are thrown by God as a
punishment for their evil deeds.” “Once the curtains and 
the scenery-backdrops had caught fire, the theatre became a blazing inferno in which the audience was enclosed and in danger of being burned alive.” “Once the
back-draft had sucked the fire through the main lobby,
the whole hotel became a blazing inferno in which hundreds of people were trapped and fried alive.” *

Bleary-eyed 
State that arises when your eyes appear to have become
unclear from too much drinking or reading; or you have
been looking at the computer for too long; your eyes
have become strained, blurry, unfocused, and hazy so
you appear in need of rest. “Charles stayed-up all night
preparing his power-point presentation and appeared
bleary-eyed at the breakfast table in the morning looking,
half-asleep.” “Father always looks a little bleary-eyed in
the morning when he has been out drinking the night before,” “Whenever Shelly studies for more than four hours
in-a-row, she starts looking bleary-eyed and groggy.” *

Bleed someone dry 
Just as one may continue extracting all the blood to the
very last drop from a person’s body until he is dead, so
one may be said to continue blood-sucking someone’s
money until one eventually bleeds him dry. “Percy has
married a woman who is nothing but a leech and a bloodsucker whose only intention is going to be to bleed him
dry, until he hasn’t even a penny to his name.” *

Bleeding-heart story 
A sad story (sob story) told in order to gain pity and sympathy or money from an unsuspecting listener. “Some
psychologically-disturbed people tell sad, bleeding-heart
stories just to fulfill the need to gain people’s attention
and sympathy.” “I’m tired of listening to your bleedingheart stories about your first marriage. Why don’t you
shut up and do something positive to try to make our
marriage work?” “I used to know a prostitute who earned
most of her money telling bleeding-heart stories, about
how she was sexually abused in her childhood, to sympathetic old men so they would give her money.” *

Blend in with the surroundings
To mix into a crowded environment so that no one will
notice you. “People who are very shy don’t like to stand
out in a group but would rather to blend in with the surroundings.” “A good spy should be inconspicuous and e
able to blend in with the surroundings.” “When you
graduate and join a professional firm, you will no longer
be able to wear T-shirts and jeans but will have to wear
the appropriate clothing to blend in with the surroundings.” *

Blessing in disguise 
What at first seems a bad thing or disappointment can
sometimes be a stroke of good luck. “That I missed my
flight turned out to be a blessing in disguise, because it
crashed and everyone on board was killed.” “It was a 
blessing in disguise that I did not apply to join the Air
Force because, if they had accepted me, I would never
have studied aeronautical engineering.” “A quick relatively un-painful death can sometimes be a blessing in
disguise when you compare it to a long excruciating and
painful and intolerable death.” *

Blind alley 
Just as a short, narrow lane between rows of houses may
lead nowhere but just to a dead end, so we may say that a
person is entering a blind alley in pursuing a path that
leads to an unsatisfying end. “The drug dealer led me up
a blind alley where his friends were waiting to rob and
beat the shit out of me.” “Any kind of addiction or dependency is a psychological, blind alley leading towards
a dead end, which will leave you without a single
friend.” “Pursuing this line of thought leads into an inescapable blind alley. We’ll have to discover a more creative path to help us get ourselves out of this impasse in
the end.” *

Blind as a bat 
Just as bats are blind and fly in the dark, so we say a person is blind as bat when he can’t see even a few feet
ahead of him. “Granddad is as blind as a bat without his
spectacles.” “Sally is as blind as a bat but refuses to wear
eye-glasses because she thinks she will not appear beautiful.” “You must be as blind as a bat! The document you
are looking for is right there on the desk in front of you!”*

Blind side 
Just as a horse that is blind in one eye will be blind on
that side, so we may say a person with a one-sided view
or opinion has a blind side. “Our mother has a blind side
when it comes too father’s weaknesses.” “Professor Sonkoon has a blind side when it comes to admitting his
country’s weaknesses.” “A person who does not see or
appears to ignore perfectly obvious shortcomings when it
comes to someone or something close to him is said to
have a blind side.”
Blink of an eye In the time than it takes to blink one’s eye. “You can be
alive one minute and then, suddenly, in the blink of an
eye, dead the next.” “Everything appeared normal, when,
suddenly, in the blink of an eye, she went absolutely
crazy.” “I was driving with care along the street when
suddenly, in the blink of an eye, a big fat cat jumped out
in front of me.” *

Blockhead 
Someone stupid and stubborn who cannot think or adjust.
“You blockhead! Look what you have gone and done
now! How could you be so stupid?” “I was such a blockhead in school that I couldn’t remember the multiplication tables.” “Uncle Sidney is a stubborn blockhead when
it comes to understanding others’ views or changing his 
fixed opinions.” *

Blood-shot eyes 
When the red blood vessels stand out and show in the
whites of your eyes. “When I study long, hard hours, I
get blood-shot eyes.” When father drinks too much, he
gets blood-shot eyes.” “When mother has had too little
sleep she gets really blood shot eyes.” *

Blood-thirsty 
Just as a vampire may be thought to be thirsty to drink
human blood, so we may say a person is blood-thirsty
who enjoys slashing and cutting people and making them
bleed; or someone who likes gory stories about bloodthirsty deeds. “Cheap, bloodthirsty novels used to sell
like hotcakes before TV. Now, we get to see bloodthirsty
stories on the news for free.” “Many hundreds of years
ago, the Caribbean Islands were full of bloodthirsty pirates.” “Almost since history began, there have always
been bloodthirsty battles in which conquering forces
have captured and killed thousands and thousands of victims.” *

Bloom of youth 
Just as a flower may be destroyed when it is coming into
first bloom, so can a person’s life be cut off or destroyed
early. “My sister, Amelia, died in the bloom of youth at
only seventeen.” “It was a tragedy that my mother died in
childbirth, at twenty-four, right in the bloom of her
youth.” “It seems sad that some people should die in the
bloom of youth, but, sometimes, it is a blessing in disguise which saves them from the terrible suffering they
would otherwise have had to endure and survive over a
long and painful life.” *

Blow a fuse 
Just as the fuse in an electrical circuit blows when it is
overheated, so we may say that when a person’s temper
is overheated, he blows a fuse and bursts out in anger.
“Don’t blow a fuse every time you experience something
unfair; if you keep doing that you will just burn yourself
out in the uncontrolled-anger of youth.” “When I found
out that my husband had lost the money which we had
saved to pay our taxes on gambling, I really blew a fuse.”
“Don’t blow a fuse just because someone else does
something stupid, because when you blow a fuse, you
show you are just as stupid as he is.” *

Blow a gasket 
Just as an engine can burst its seal and blow up due to
release of internal pressure, so a person may be said to
blow under mental pressure. “Don’t blow a gasket every
time someone criticizes you for making a mistake.” “Dad
is going to blow a gasket when he finds out that I crashed
the family car.” “The boss is going to blow a gasket
when he finds out that we got the data wrong.”
Blow up An argument caused by a tense situation turning into an
explosion of emotion. “One day, in our firm, there is going to be a big blow up about management policy, and a
few people will have to leave.” “We had a big blow-up at
the office last month, because one of the secretaries
started an argument about who had the right to ask who
to do what and for whom.” “I had a big blow up with my
wife last week because she keeps demanding more and
more money.” *

Blow your chances 
Miss opportunities by making mistakes or committing
wrong actions. “If I don’t start studying harder, I’ll blow
my chance to pass the entrance exam.” “I was thinking of
marrying you, but you blew your chances when you
started dating my sister.” “Don’t turn up improperlydressed for the interview, or you will blow your chances
of being hired for the job.” *

Blow your own horn 
Brag about how good you are; boast about your accomplishments; like blowing your horn to show off your new
car. “We all know how good you are, so you don’t have
to keep blowing your own horn.” “If you don’t strop
blowing your own horn, people will think that you are
conceited, self-centered and over-confident.” “Even
when people do not notice, recognize and praise your
good qualities, it is considered in poor taste to blow your
own horn.” *

Blow your stack 
Just as a steam engine that is over-heated may be about
to explode and blow-off its smoke-stack, so we may say
a person is about to blow his stack and have a temper fit.
“The Colonel is going to blow his stack when he finds
out I am absent without leave and not coming back.”
“Good old Jack will blow his stack when he learns I too
his money and I’m not coming back.” “I almost blew my
stack when you told me that you had my little brother
tied-up in a potato sack.” *

Blown-away 
Really impressed; totally overcome with enthusiasm; by
an unexpected mental event; overwhelmed by experiencing something so cool that takes you out of normal reality. “When hippies took drugs in the 60’s, they used to
say that they got totally ‘blown away.’” “When I read
Dostoyevsky’s Crime and Punishment when I was just
eighteen, it totally blew me away.” “The first time I
heard a live operatic performance of Tosca, I was totally
blown away.” *

Blown-out-of- proportion 
Magnifying or making a little thing into a big thing.
“Don’t get upset by nothing; don’t blow things out of
proportion.” “It’s no big deal. Don’t let things get blown
out of proportion. Don’t make a mountain out of a molehill.” “Just as in photography, one might enlarge a little
detail to appear so big that it is totally blown out of proportion, so, in life, we can get psychologically obsessed 
by a little detail and blow it emotionally out of proportion.” *

Blow-over 
Just as dark, rain clouds can blow over a location on land
without a drop of rain falling, so a scandal a scare or a
threatened crisis can blow over and pass away over time.
“Keep your self out of sight and keep a low profile until
the accusation of sexual scandal against you has blown
over and it’s no longer a topic of news.” “The police are
trying to throw a scare into drug dealers by cracking
down on them, but the dealers know that the scare will
soon blow over and things will go back to the way they
were before.” “The rising price of oil is making economists uneasy and they are anticipating a financial crisis,
but the oil cartels will lower the prices just as disaster is
about to strike and the whole thing will blow over.” *

Blow-up-in your face 
Just as a home-made bomb can blow-up-in your face, so
an evil, tricky or deceitful plan can backfire and cause
you a lot of damage or pain. “Directing false blame on
your brother for what you did to your sister will blow-upin your face if he can prove he’s innocent.” “Don’t try
any deceptive, tricky, monkey-business that can blow up
in your face when the truth comes out.” “The Vice president had a secret plan to take over the government
through a military coup, but it blew up in his face.” *

Blue-blooded 
Someone with royal, noble blood is said to have blue
blood; blue-blooded has connotations of high aristocracy.
“If you cut off a blue-blooded head, the blood still runs
red.” “Marina’s family line has been blue-blooded aristocracy since the late eighth century.” “During the
French revolution, they tried to execute everyone with
blue blood, but a few members of the nobility managed
to slip through their fingers and get away.” *

Blue-chip 
Sure financial winners. “Shares in companies like Kodak,
Microsoft and IMB are considered blue-chip shares that
will be sure to pay-off in the end.” “My stock broker is
careful about risk management so he always advises me
to put my money into blue-chip stocks.” “The blue-chip
stock shares of the future will likely be in large technology conglomerates that have a near monopoly on the
market.” *

Blue-collar worker 
As office workers are called white-collar workers, so
those in a factory are often called blue-collar workers.
“There is more prestige in being a white collar-worker
than a blue-collar worker but not necessarily more
money.” “Financial analysts never forget that blue collar
workers bring in a high percent of national income that
is, then, spent to keep the economy going.” “Blue-collar
workers are often short-sighted at the bargaining table 
and would rather see the company go bust than compromise so they don’t all go broke.” *

Bluff your way through 
When you have no idea what to say or do, just fake your
way through. “If someone puts you on the spot and you
don’t know what to say or do, just bluff your way
through.” “Alicia almost caught me lying and asked me a
lot of awkward questions, but I just bluffed my way
through and she didn’t manage to catch me.” “They
asked one question during my doctoral orals that I didn’t
know the answer to, but I just kept bluffing my way
through until they asked me the next question.” *

Body and soul 
Metaphorically comparing soul and self all heart and
spirit. “Sondra says she loves her family with body and
soul.” “In the face of these difficult times, I don’t know
how I will keep body and soul together.” “I love you
with all my body and soul.” *

Body count 
Just as we count the dead bodies on a battlefield, so we
metaphorically say we take a body count of the number
of people in attendance at a meeting or function. “The
Chairman took a body count to determine if the there
were enough members present to constitute a quorum.”
“Before we begin class, let me take a body count, just to
be sure everyone is here. When I call out your name,
please say ‘here’ in a clear and loud voice and raise your
hand.” “Just as we count dead bodies after a battle, so we
may say we are making a body count in planning a party,
to determine how many people will be eating.” *

Body language 
Telling people (in Western culture) what you mean by
using body gestures rather than by speaking. “In body
language, when you communicate by sitting and crossing
your legs, that means you are mistrustful and don’t want
to let anyone in.” “When you sit with your legs open, that
means you are open and trustful.” “When you cannot
look someone in the eye that means you’re ashamed of
your self.” *

Bogged down with 
Just as a buffalo-cart can get bogged down and stuck in
mud or marshy ground, so we say that we are bogged
down in work or some other responsibility. “I can’t meet
you this week because I am too bogged down in my
work.” “Sometime later, when I am not so bogged down
with duties and responsibilities, Darling, I promise to
take you on a holiday to Bermuda.” “During the audit
peak season our staff is so bogged down with annual audit reviews that they barely get four hours sleep a day
and many sleep under their desks.” *

Boggle the mind 
If boggle means to give someone a good mental shaking
up, so boggle the mind means the mind does a quick
mental retake to rethink what it first thought it under-
stood or misunderstood. “The mathematical proportions
of the possibility for HIV spreading through physical
contact are mind-boggling.” “It is absolutely mindboggling to me to see the American government spending billions of dollars on warfare when it could be using
the money for welfare.” “It boggles the mind to imagine
how many white cells have appeared and disappeared
and died since the beginning of humankind.” *

Bogus check 
Phony, bad, fake, false check drawn on a bank account
which lacks sufficient funds to cover it. “In order to get
my first wife off my back and get her to go away, I wrote
her a bogus check.” “In America, people, often, purposely pay their bills with a bogus check and, afterwards,
say that they are sorry they made a mistake.” In Germany, according to the law, if you pay with a bogus
check you can be prosecuted and maybe even have to
serve time in jail.” *

Boiling mad 
Water coming to a boil may be compared to the mind
finally reaching a point of anger at which it explosively
bursts fourth into rage. “When you cancelled your date
with me, I was absolutely boiling mad and ready to kill
you.” “Mom will be boiling mad when she sees the big
ink stain I put on the Turkish rug.” “My big boss will be
boiling mad when he finds out that I accidentally lost the
passports of sixteen important Japanese clients.” *

Boiling point 
Just as water boils at one hundred degrees centigrade, so
we can lose our temper when the pressure reaches a certain point. “When my anger reaches the boiling point, I
no longer have any control over what I may do.” “Be
careful, if you try my patience to the boiling point, I may
just kill you right here on the spot!” “Only once in my
life did I ever see my mother’s constant nagging bring
my father’s patience to the boiling and point.” *

Boils down to 
What is left in the final analysis; the essence in the end.
“You can find a lot of reasons for fighting this war, but
what it all boils down to is keeping-up a price of oil.”
“Consumerism is a big-sounding name for what, in the
end, all boils down to just plain need and greed.” “The
government can analyze the cause of environmental encroachment all it wants, but what it all boils down to is
that people put their own selfish short-term needs before
the long term goals of the common good.” *

Bombard with questions 
Just as warplanes may blanket and bombard an area with
bombs, so we can say that a person may be bombarded
by loads of questions from sides. “After the National Security leak, the President was bombarded with questions
about the source.” “In Parliament, the Prime Minister
was bombarded with questions by the members of the 
opposition about the government’s proposed annual
budget increase.” At the press Conference, journalists
bombarded the Finance Minister with questions about
how the budget funds would be allotted.” *

Bone dry 
Just as a bone that has been totally bleached and dried in
the hot desert sun may be said to be bone dry, so we can
say that something that has been kept in a dry, safe place
is bone dry. “Our new waterproof coating system protects the chemical elements inside the capsule from moisture and keeps them absolutely bone dry.” “If the electrical contacts in the auto pilot are not kept bone dry, there
is s danger of overheating that will blow a fuse and leave
you to steer your ship manually.” “Above board, in the
storm, the deck is awash with waves, but down here, at
the chart table, I am absolutely as snug as bug. I am absolutely bone dry.” *

Bonehead 
Someone who is so stupid he has is thought to have nothing but bone where his brain should be. “Sometimes, my
little brother is such a bonehead that he even forgets his
family name.” “When I was in school, I was such a bonehead that I couldn’t even do simple mathematical calculations in my head.” “What a bonehead you are! Didn’t
you ever stop to think what the consequences of your
telling my secret would be?” *

Bone-up on a subject 
Review and bring your self to the required-level of
knowledge. “I’ll have to bone-up on my English grammar before I take the language placement test.” “It’s been
a while since I have had to use calculus, but give me a
couple of days to bone-up on it and bring myself back
up-to-standard.” “I need some time to bone upon my geography so that in my press conference, I don’t mix-up
countries and geographical place names.” *

Bookworm 
Someone who always has his nose in a book. “When I
was a kid, between the ages of twelve and sixteen, I was
a real bookworm: I had read every book in my Grandfather’s bookcase.” “At seventeen, after I discovered girls,
I ceased being a bookworm and never opened a book
again.” “My sister Prudence spends all her time up in her
room hitting the books. She’s such a bookworm that we
are beginning to worry about her.” *

Boom or bust 
Either a rapid, economic explosion of economic success
or a slow financial low in which a few businesses will
boom but most will go broke or bust. “Nowadays, there
is no economic trend you can totally trust, and new business ventures either go boom or bust.” “Statistics have
shown that, of all the businesses registered, few ever
boom and most of them go bust.” “In the New Millennium, the country has been undergoing a period of economic uncertainty. It’s either feast or famine—either
boom or bust.” *

Boon to society 
A person or action causing something good and advantageous to happen which benefits society. “His Majesty
The King’s benevolent actions have been a boon to Thai
society throughout his reign.” “Sir Winston Churchill’s
strong leadership skill was a boon to the British nation
during the 2WW.” “The stability of the Anand government, after the chaos of the May disaster, was a boon to
our society.” *
Boondocks 
Far away from town; out in the backwoods with the
backward people. “I grew up out in the boondocks, five
miles from the nearest village, far away from the nearest
town.” “Uncle Shem grew up out in the boondocks and
had to walk five miles to school every day.” “You would
never expect that someone born in the boondocks would
one day become the State Governor.” *

Booted-out 
Fired from the job; discharged from the firm; terminated
from employment; kicked-out; given the boot; dumped.
“Percy got booted-out of his last job for stealing from the
petty cash box.” “I’m afraid I may get the boot if I don’t
meet my budget. The guy before me got booted-out for
the same reason.” “Our chief accountant got booted-out
of his job when the revenue department discovered he
was keeping two sets of books.” “I’m going to sue in labor court because the company just booted-me-out for no
justifiable reason.” *

Bored- to-tears 
So bored that you feel sorry for yourself and are about to
break-down and cry; bored to death; bored-stiff; uninterested; fed up. “Professor Gleason may be the world’s
greatest expert on Shakespeare, but every time I go to his
class, I get bored to tears.” “When my students read the
tragic story of Hamlet, I expect them to be moved-totears, but the realistic truth is that they are more likely to
be bored-to-tears.” “Whenever Don turns up and starts
talking, I listen for a while to be polite, but he always
bores me to tears, especially because he keeps complaining about the same old things, again and again.” *

Bored-stiff 
Tired of and uninterested in something to the point of
being put to sleep, as though becoming as dead-and-rigid
as a corpse. “I get bored-stiff just sitting around at home
with nothing to do.” “Professor Holmes’ expository writing lectures make me bored-stiff. “An accountant gets
bored-stiff, following the same steps and procedures,
year in and year out.” *

Born and bred 
Born and raised and taught to exhibit certain manners
and attitudes that reflect the respectability of a family or
region. “Those who are born and bred to the British aristocracy have their own special accent and vocabulary and
a manner of speaking that is peculiarly their own.” “I was
born and bred in an French middle class family and I am
not ashamed to say so.” “People who were born and bred
the American South think differently from those born
and bred in New England.” *

Born in a barn 
When you say someone was born in a barn, it means that
he is too ignorant to know enough to close the barn door.
“Close the door! Damn it! What is wrong with you?
Were you born in a barn?” “Willy never closes the door
behind him. He behaves like some up-country bumpkin
who was born in a barn.” “When you say a person must
have been born in a barn that means that he must have
slept in a stable where the door was always kept open so
the horses could come in and go into their stalls.” *

Born yesterday 
Appearing to be as innocent as a new born child; wideeyed and innocent; easily fooled, tricked; not wise to the
ways of the world; easily deceived or taken-in. “Sophie
looks so innocent and trustful, it appears that she was
born yesterday.” “Some sweet girls who look like they
were born yesterday easily become victims of sexual
predators.” “I don’t believe in that get-rich-quick scheme
that the Amway lady keeps promising. I wasn’t born yesterday.” *

Borrowed time 
Not long to live, perhaps having lived beyond your life
expectancy already. “”According to medical statistics, I
should be dead already, and, every moment I continue to
live, I am living on borrowed time.” “The cancer has
spread into the spine and father is living on borrowed
time.” “Once you double-cross the Mafia, you are living
on borrowed time.” *

Bosom friend 
Just as two persons may hold one another bosom to
bosom, so you may say that a person who is one of your
warmest and dearest friends is, indeed, a bosom friend.
“Alice and Patricia have been bosom friends since the
time they were cheerleaders in high-school together.”
“The Prime Minister and the Defense minister have been
bosom friends since they were schoolboys together at
Eaton.” “There is nothing more-sad than two lonely, old
drunks who think they are the best of bosom friends, but
who will both die lonely and deserted in the end.” *

Botched-up 
Made a mistake; made a mess of; spoiled; ruined; did a
clumsy job; failed; messed-up. “I’m afraid I botched-up
the print job by starting and stopping the printer too often.” “Kenny really botched-up his Power Point Presentation by making the size of the fonts so small that no
one in the audience could read them.” “I apologize for
the way I botched-up the wedding speech Darling. I hope 
you will forgive me. I was so nervous out there in front
of all those people.” “What a botch job! I have never
seen such clumsy work in my life. I’m afraid I’m going
to have to sack you for carelessness and lack of proficiency.” *

Bottom drawer 
The least-good of the lot; lowest quality; lowest grade.
“In the safe at the jewelry store, they keep smallest diamonds of the lowest quality in the bottom drawer the
largest of the best quality in the top drawer” “I keep by
best drawings in the top drawer and the worst in the bottom drawer.” “My art teacher said, ‘Your drawings and
sketches are really bottom drawer. If you don’t improve
your quality, you’ll be kicked-out the studio door.’” *

Bottom line 
What is unconditionally demanded in-the-end. “We can
negotiate and mediate for days, but I can tell you, now,
that the bottom line is that we must have a twenty percent
profit margin or there is no deal.” “We can discuss this if
you want, but I am going to tell you bluntly, from the
beginning, the bottom line is either you do exactly what I
want or our relationship is over.” “I want to help you,
Darling, but the bottom line is if you do not stop drinking, I am filing for divorce.”*

Bottom rung of the ladder
Just as one must start at the bottom rung of the ladder to
climb up to the top, so, in a company, one may start in
the lowest position and work one’s way up to the top.
“Granddad started at the bottom ring of the ladder in the
company fifty years ago and slowly worked his way up
to becoming Chairman of the Board.” “There is nothing
wrong with starting out at the bottom of the ladder as
long as you don’t stay there very long.” “One advantage
of starting out on the bottom rung of the ladder and
working your way you to success at the top is that you
get to understand every job in the company.” *

Bottom-out 
Just as a curve must reach its lowest level before it begins to curve up again, so we may say that an economic
curve bottoms out before it starts to rise upwards again.
“The price of gold bottomed-out in 1992, but, since that
time, it has been constantly on the rise again.” “Sales
figures bottomed-out in the first part of the fourth quarter, but began an upward turn just before the Christmas
rush.” “Stock prices bottomed-out at the time of the economic crisis but as confidence started to grow again in
the economy, they began to gradually rise again.” *

Bounce-back 
Just as a rubber ball bounces back, after being thrown
against a wall, so a man or a team or a firm can bounceback, after a loss, to become a success or a winner again.
“After four straight losses in a row, the New York Giants
bounced-back to win the next eight consecutive games, 
which put them in the running to qualify for the World
Series.” “After the price of oil had dropped to twentyeight dollars a barrel, it, unexpectedly, bounced-back to
thirty-five dollars.” “My Dad is a fighter. When he lost
his grocery shop, he was pretty depressed at first, but,
then, he bounced-back and started supplying wholesale
goods to big supermarket chains.” *

Bound and determined 
Dedicated to making a strong effort in order to succeed
or achieve a goal. “I am bound and determined to make a
success of my life, and I am willing to do anything necessary to achieve my goals.” “My father is bound and
determined to see me well-married to a successful professional man with a happy family of my own.” “I am
bound and determined never to marry, and never to be at
the beck and call of any man, and never to have children
making demands on me for all the rest of my life.” *

Boundless energy 
A seemingly inexhaustible source of energy. “We would
like to thank Cathy for her boundless energy in leading
the activities of the committee.” “Had it not been for the
boundless energy that my Granddad put into the company, it would not be the booming success that it is today.” “Due to Bill Gates’ determination and boundless
energy, Microsoft has become one of the leading corporations in the world.” *

Bow down before someone
Go down on your knees and bow before someone, either
out of true respect or because you are forced to do so. “I
refuse to bow down before any man because I believe
that all men are created equal” “The first British envoy
ever admitted into China refused to bow down and kowtow to the Chinese Emperor.” “Buddhist devotees bow
down before their master three times as a humble show
of respect.” *

Bow out of the running 
Concede defeat in a contest. “Colin Evans had to bow out
of the Olympic running for the gold medal in the hundred
yard dash when he tested positive for use of steroids.”
“The third-ranking candidate bowed out of the running in
the political race when it became clear he could pull only
twenty percent of the votes.” “The Republican National
Committee withdrew their support for the candidate and
asked him to bow out of the running in order to avoid
throwing more good money after bad.” *

Bowl of cherries 
An easy, enjoyable life. “Compared to what it used to be,
my new life is a bowl of cherries.” “Life is actually a
bowl of cherries; you just have to learn to lay back and
enjoy what is given to you.” “If you have a positive attitude and a bit of luck, and apply yourself, your life will
become a bowl of cherries.” *

Bowled-over 
Just as bowling pins are knocked-over by a big bowling 
ball, so a person may be said to be bowled over by an
unexpected surprise, a sudden blow of fate or by extremely bad news. “I was really bowled-over when I got
the news of that my girlfriend was pregnant.” “Father
was bowled-over when he was suddenly given notice that
he would be forced into early retirement.” “The whole
family was bowled over when Grandmother got cancer
and very quickly died.” *

Box on the ear 
A blow with the hand over the side of the ear, as a punishment. “If I catch you stealing from the cookie jar
again, I’ll give you a box on the ear.” “I remember, once,
my Dad gave me a box on the ear because I refused to do
my chores.” “When Grandmother catches Grandfather
sneaking a drink of whiskey from the dining room cabinet, she gives him a box on the ear.” *

Boxed into a corner 
Just as a boxer may be beaten back into his corner, so we
may figuratively say that a person in a difficult situation
is boxed into a corner. “In the debate, I boxed my self
into a corner by contradicting myself too often and had to
finally concede defeat.” “Through continuous lying and
bad business deals, I have boxed my self onto a corner,
and I can’t see any way of getting out.” “My business
competitors have backed me into a corner that I cannot
box my way out of.” *

Boys will be boys 
Because boys cannot stop themselves from doing things
that are natural to boys, there is the saying that “boys will
be boys.” “You can not stop boys from fighting and
scrapping in the schoolyard because boys will be boys.”
“Don’t get mad at boys when they start cussing and
smoking. It’s just a phase. Boys will be boys.” “Boys
can’t stop themselves from viewing girl’s bodies just as
physical objects because boys will be boys.” *

Brain-child 
A new idea that was thought-up (or born) in-the-head of
someone quite clever. “Microsoft Windows was the
brainchild of Bill Gates.” “Einstein was the brainchild of
the theory of relativity.” “I don’t know who the brainchild was who thought up the computer, but, whoever he
was, he certainly changed the world.” *

Brain-dead 
Just as a person may still be alive in the hospital but his
brain is not functioning, so we may say a person is braindead when he seems so stupid that his brain doesn’t appear to be working. “Whoever thought up such a stupid
social welfare system must have been brain-dead.” “You
big stupid boob! You must be brain-dead! What ever
made you think up a stupid obvious lie like that?”
“Sometimes, when I am giving a lecture, and I am looking out at my students, they all appear to me to be braindead.” * 

Brainstorming session 
When a group of people get together to discuss creative
ideas and inspirations that come into their minds, this is
called a brainstorming session. “When the government
cannot solve a pressing-problem, it often brings together
a think-tank of experts who have a brainstorming together until someone comes up with a bright idea to
serve as a solution.” “Sales and marketing managers often get together and have a brainstorming session on how
to get the product out to the public better.” “Good teachers often divide their class into groups of four or five and
give them a problem-solving task and let them have a
brainstorming session together, until they have developed
a plan to follow.” *

Branch-out 
Just as a tree branches-out new limbs, so a business or
organization may branch-out and establish offices or outlets in different locations. “KFC started out as a single
specialty fried-chicken restaurant, but, then, branchedout, over the years, to have outlets in every corner of the
world.” “The government wants to establish free AIDS
clinics, first, in Bangkok, and then to branch-out all over
the country.” “C. U. Books started distributing books
only in Bangkok but eventually branched-out to become
the main supplier for bookshops all over the country.” *

Brand new 
Just as a brand-made product comes off the assemblyline, ready for purchase and use, so we can say that
something we have just bought is brand new. “This hair
dryer is brand new. The package has not even been
opened yet.” “Our family has just bought a brand new
home entertainment center.” “He must be doing well. He
has just bought a brand new BMW straight off the assembly line.” *

Brass balls 
Invulnerable to pain. “When they say a man has brass
balls, they mean he is so tough that nothing anyone says
or does can hurt him.” “My boss must have brass balls
because he is invulnerable to any aggressive words or
hostile attacks directed his way.” “They say that First
Lady declared that wearing miniskirts was forbidden in
the Whitehouse because she didn’t want anybody to see
she had brass balls.” *

Brass tacks 
Go directly to the point and get into the specific details,
points or complaints “Lets get down to brass tacks. There
are several complaints I have about your work and I want
to go over them in detail with you.” “I have something
unpleasant to tell you, so lets get down to brass tacks and
go straight to the point: we keep finding small sums of
money missing from the petty cashbox and we think it is
because of you.” “I am not going to beat about the bush
but get directly down to brass tacks. There are several 
required documents missing from the application you
have provided, and the officer-in-charge at the Ministry
will not begin the process until you have provided them.”*

 Breach of decorum 
 Decorum means maintaining the appropriate tone and
attitude for an occasion, so a breach of decorum means
breaking proper the mood of the occasion. “On a solemn
and serious occasion, it would be an improper breach of
decorum to crack a silly joke.” “It would be a breach of
decorum to chatter away to your friend within the auditorium while the Queen was giving a speech.” “In extremely polite society, it is considered a breach of decorum to sit at the dinner table and scratch your head.” *

Breach of etiquette 
If etiquette means following the rules of proper, polite,
conventional manners, breaching etiquette means breaking such rules and doing something against the accepted
code of behavior. “It is a breach of etiquette to break into
a conversation when you are not invited.” “It is a breach
of etiquette to stretch your arm across the table for food
that is out of your reach.” “In very polite English society,
it is considered a breach of etiquette if you don’t stand up
when a guest is leaving the room to go home.” *

Bread and butter 
The income needed to provide food for the family. “You
have to learn a profession the will put bread and butter on
the table.” “I edit books to earn my bread and butter, but
I write poetry just for my pleasure.” “My husband may
not be perfect, but we can always count on him to bring
home the bread and butter.” *

Break even 
Show neither a profit nor a loss; get back an investment
without losing on the deal. “In my first business venture,
after about two years, I found I was still only breaking
even, so I gave it up.” “When I start to win at the gambling table I keep playing until I either break the bank or
break even.” “John invested two million dollars in tuna
fishing boats that were destroyed in a hurricane, but after
the insurance had paid off the damages, he just about
broke even.” *

Break someone in 
Just as cowboy breaks and tames and trains a new pony,
so we say, figuratively, that we break a new person into a
new job when he joins the company in order to get him
started in his work-routine. “The firm has a three day
training program to break in and orient new staff members.” “When I first started working here, the person who
broke me in and showed me the ropes was the man who
had held my job before me.” “We have a new entered
apprentice, and the master mason is going to start breaking him into how to use the tools of the craft today.” *

Break the ice Warm up the atmosphere between people; think of something to say to start up a friendly conversation; do an activity so people will get to know one another and feel
more relaxed. “When I meet a new client, I always start
with some small talk just to break the ice.” “When I want
to start talking to a new girl, I think of something cute
and clever to say, just to break the ice.” “Whenever I
start teaching a new class, I always start with a warm-up
activity just to break the ice.” *

Breaking new ground 
Just as the ground must be broken and prepared for the
construction of a new building, so we can say that, in
making preparations for progress, we are breaking new
ground. “Science is breaking new ground in the of the
endless field of physics.” “The government is trying to
break new ground to get religious factions to work and
live together in harmony.” “Microsoft is always trying to
break new ground in technological advancements to keep
ahead of the competition.” *

Breath a sigh of relief 
After a period of mounting anxiety and tension, we can
breathe a sigh of relief if something bad we are expecting
does not actually happen. “After I got my exam results, I
breathed a sigh of relief.” “We all breathed a sigh of relief, when the tornado changed its path and turned away
towards the east.” “I was afraid the company were going
to terminate my employment at the end of the fiscal year,
but, when they did not, I breathed a sigh of relief.” *

Breathe down someone’s neck
Standing over someone, behind his back, examining his
work and, literally, breathing down his neck. “One day I
will retire, and, then, there will be nobody standing over
my shoulder, breathing down my neck.” “If I can start
my own successful business, I will never again have the
feeling of someone standing over me and breathing down
my neck.” “The Revenue Department is breathing down
our internal auditor’s neck demanding missing documents and invoices.” *

Breathe your last 
Take your last breath before you die. “Daddy is about to
breath his last and has called you to his bedside because
there is something he wants to tell you.” “Before I
breathe my last, there are a number of things I still want
to do.” “When a man is about to breath his last, he should
think of something positive, like loving-kindness or
sympathetic joy.” *

Breathing fire 
Just as mythological dragons were supposed to have
breathed fire, so someone who is powerful and angry
may be said to be breathing fire when he is mad at someone about something and is ready to attack to pay him
back. “My boss is breathing fire because I went twentypercent over-budget due to careless miscalculations; he is
about ready to blow his stack!” “My wife was breathing 
fire because she found out that I had been gossiping
about her behind her back. When I came home, I was
greeted by a frontal attack.” “I have been absolutely
breathing fire since I heard the Managing Director is
making secret moves to make me retire.” *

Breathing spell 
Take a break; rest for just long enough to catch your
breath. “When I go trekking, because of my weak heart, I
often have to stop for a breathing spell.” “When you do
very intensive exercise, it is wise to stop, now and again,
for a breathing spell to alleviate the accumulating strain
on the muscles, body and heart.” “Sometimes, if you are
near the top and you give in to the temptation to take a
breathing spell, you may never get to the top at all.” *

Breathtaking view 
A view so panoramic and inspiring that it takes your
breath away. “From outer space, the view of the blue
planet is absolutely unforgettable and breathtaking.”
“When you stand at the edge of the grand Canyon, the
view is so huge and vast it is breathtaking.” “The aweinspiring view from atop Mount Everest is so spectacular
it is literally breathtaking.” *

Breeding grounds 
Just as there can be perfect, natural habitats with the required conditions required for certain animals or species
to arise and mate and reproduce in number, so there can
be said to be breeding grounds for certain types of human
actions or behavior. “Live music, night-club entertainment areas are the perfect breeding grounds for teenage
sex and drugs.” “Dockside areas in large city ports are
natural breeding grounds for illegal activities like smuggling and trade in stolen goods.” “Large industrial estates
full of factories and workers are the perfect breeding
grounds for labor party activists to arise and flourish.” *

Bridge the gap 
Just as you start constructing a bridge by sinking a sound
foundation on either bank of a river, preparatory to building and extending the superstructure out from each side,
over the water, to bridge the gap in-between, so we
sometimes make a comparison, saying we need to find a
way to bridge a gap in understanding or between two
situations or different points of view. “A good teacher
will be able to use suitable comparisons to help students
to bridge the gap between confusion and clarity of point
of view.” “The UN is taking world-wide measures to
bridge the gap in education between the highly-educated
and totally illiterate peoples of the world.” “It is not so
easy to bridge the gap in understanding between conflicting religious factions with different points of view.” *

Brief encounter 
Short interlude or love affair. “I had a brief encounter
with my boss’s wife several years ago, but we thought it
was too dangerous, so, in the end, we decided to drop it 
and let it go.” “I had a hot, brief encounter with an Israeli
woman in my younger years, during the Six Day War,
but when the fighting was over, we each went our own
ways.” “Edith had a brief encounter with an Italian Count
in Rome in her later years, but when she found out he
was penniless she dropped him like a hot potato.” *

Bright boy/guy 
An ironic expression that means the opposite. i.e. stupid
rather than clever. “Listen here, bright boy, if I hear you
making any more dumb comments like that, I’ll box your
ears.” “Let me ask you a question, bright boy, if you
think you are so smart, why aren’t you rich?” “All right,
bright guy, one more remark like that, and I’ll knock
your solar plexus up into where your brains should be!” *

Bright idea 
A sudden inspiration; a good, new idea, an answer or solution or way to fix a problem. “What a bright idea!
That’s a clever suggestion. Why didn’t I think of that
myself?” “As I was driving over here, I suddenly got the
bright idea that if I cut down my fixed costs, I could
loosen-up my cash flow problem.” “As I was daydreaming my time away, I suddenly got the idea that if
my rich, maiden aunt married my widowed, wealthy uncle and they adopted me in, I’d no longer be a poor, deserted and lonely orphan.” *

Bright side 
The good, happy, hopeful, optimistic side. “Always try to
look on the bright side, because things could always be
worse.” “If you wake up every morning and look on the
bright side, you’ll always have a positive attitude.”
“Someone who always looks on the dark side is a pessimist, and someone who always looks on the bright side is
an optimist.” *

Bright-eyed and bushytailed
A folksy expression meaning that a person is looking fit
as a country fox, fully-energetic and ready to go. “Well,
hello cousin Sue. You are looking bright-eyed and
bushy-tailed today!” “I like to see these pretty-looking
country girls coming into town looking all bright-eyed
and bushy-tailed.” “Well! I’m feeling all bright-eyed and
bushy-tailed and ready to go out today and take-on the
world.” *

Brim-full 
Just as a jar can be filled, right up to the brim (or lip) at
the top, so we can say a person is brim-full of feeling to
the point of overflowing. “I am feeling brim-full of energy today and ready to take on the world.” “When the
Princess presented me my diploma, on the day I graduated, my family and I were brim-full of pride and joy and
emotion” “Shelia was so full-to-the-brim with joyous elation when her baby girl was born that her eyes were
overflowing with floods of tears.” *

Bring home the bacon 
Work to make a living to feed the family. “One good 
thing I can say about my Dad was that he was a good
provider—he was good at bringing home the bacon.” “In
English working-class culture, ‘bringing home the bacon’
means the same thing as ‘putting bread and butter on the
table.’” “Your parents will always advise you that you
have to choose a career path that will bring home the bacon and not pursue some creative, dreamy path that will
leave you jobless, hungry, poor and homeless in the
end.” *

Bring someone out of his shell
Just as a snail withdraws into its shell for protection, so a
person may be said to withdraw into his shell, and, often,
it is difficult to get such a person to overcome his shyness and come out of his shell and behave normally. “A
good teacher will know how to slowly bring a shy and
timid student out of his shell.” “Shelly was very withdrawn and anxious when I first met her, and it took me
almost a year to get her to come out of her shell.” “Until
Martha was eighteen, she was very shy and withdrawn,
but when she went to university, she found a group of
girlfriends who helped to bring her out of her shell.” *

Bring someone to his senses
Make someone see reason; face reality; face-the-facts;
see common-sense; “I am trying to get my wife to come
to her senses and think like a normal individual and stop
her compulsive shopping-sprees.” “I wish I could bring
my daughter to her senses and get her to realize she
needs a higher education to succeed in this world.” “We
are going to have to try to bring your father to his senses
and get him to stop playing all these get rich quick
schemes.” *

Bring someone to task 
Scold someone for something he has done wrong. “The
Major called the Captain in and brought him to task
about the poor performance he had seen on the parade
ground that morning.” “If a family member does something wrong, and nobody brings him to task for his misdeed, he may keep on doing it wrong.” “Grandfather has
brought my father to task about his excessive drinking,
and is threatening to cut him out of his will if he doesn’t
stop immediately.” *

Bring to justice 
Accuse and charge someone with a crime and try in a
court of law to mete out the appropriate penalty or punishment. “I hope the thief who stole my handbag is
caught and brought to justice.” “The company Chairman
behind the corporate swindle has finally been brought to
justice and has landed in jail where he belongs.” “Mafia
members with connections inside the judicial system can
sometimes avoid being brought to justice by paying
bribes and trading favors.” *

Bring up the subject 
Raise the question; mention, broach or touch upon a 
topic. “I hesitate to bring up the subject, but can you pay
me back the money you borrowed from me last year?” “I
hate to bring up the subject, but I am afraid that I am going to have to nag you, again, about having forgotten to
do your daily chores.” “I am a little shy about bringing
up the subject, but I must inform you from the beginning
that I intend to live and die as a virgin.” *

Brings to mind 
Makes one think of something; makes one remember
something; brings up a memory from the past. “When
you mention almond cookies that brings to mind memories of my Grandmother’s kitchen.” “Speaking of unfinished business, that brings to mind that we must do a final review of the annual income figures before the audit
becomes due.” “When you speak of ocean sailing that
brings to mind a Force 12 storm I experienced at sea that
roared and raged for twelve full days, non-stop.” *

Brink of disaster 
Heading towards the point or peak or height at which
disaster may strike. “Clive is so psychologically imbalanced, that he is tottering on the brink of disaster.” “The
strengthening of the US Dollar on foreign currency markets has pushed the export trade to the brink of disaster.”
Our firm is having serious problems controlling cash
turnover and is heading towards the brink of disaster.” *

Broaden your horizon 
Become more open-minded and tolerant through expanding your view to attain more knowledge and wisdom.
“You are a little narrow-minded. You should get into the
habit of reading more in order to broaden your horizon.”
“Some persons from poor, upcountry backgrounds have
the chance, through scholarships and study abroad to expand their horizons.” If you study comparative religion
and have the experience of experiencing different religious cultures, it helps to broaden your horizon.” *

Broad-minded 
Open-minded and tolerant; ready to accept and compromise. “A tightly closed-mind will always be mentallyblinded, but one that is kept open can become broadminded.” “My father is very broad-minded and tolerant,
and he never tells me what to do. He just lets me learn
from my own mistakes compared with his own example.” “People in the region where I was brought-up are
very narrow-minded. I don’t blame them for that, however, because, if they had the chance to know the widerworld better, they would certainly become more broadminded.” *

Broken dreams 
Hopes and illusions that have become disappointments
and disillusions. “All I have of my original hopes and
desires is a heap of broken dreams.” “After five years of
marriage, all I had left was an empty bank account, a broken heart, and a lot of broken dreams.” “Sometimes, I 
feel like a broken-winged bird that is helpless to fly to
pursue broken dreams.” *

Broken-down 
Out-of-order; non-functional; in need of repair. “Now,
my washing machine is broken down and out of order, so
I’ll have to call the repairman to come and fix it.” “My
first car was an old, banged-up broken-down Ford with
rust-holes in the floor.” “Negotiations between the Palestinian Muslims and the Israeli Jews have broken down
again.” *

Broken-hearted 
Just as someone who is disappointed in love may be said
to be broken-hearted, so we can say a person is brokenhearted when he does not realize a goal or dream.” “After
my first love left me for a younger, prettier girl, I was
absolutely broken-hearted.” “When I got the news that I
would not be accepted to become an airhostess, I was
broken-hearted.” “After Dad lost the business, the house,
everything he owned, and, then, my Mom as well, he
died broken-heated.”*

Brooding over something 
Just as a chicken sits on her eggs and broods over her
nest and her moods keep changing, depending on
whether she feels threatened or not, so a person who continually regrets or resents something that happened in the
past is someone subject to moods who broods over
things. “I wish you would stop brooding over your unhappy childhood and learn to forgive and love your
mother.” “Heathcliff continued brooding over being
treated worse than a lowly stray dog and servant even
long after he had taken his revenge.” “Mom is still
brooding over something that father did years ago, but
she won’t discuss it with anyone.” *

Brought to a head 
Just as the accumulation of pus increases internal pressure inside a pimple, until it is brought to a head and almost ready to burst, so a human, civil or political situation can come to a head and end in crisis and climax.
“The conflict between my two sons came to a head when
they began to disagree who should inherit the house.”
“The conflict in City Hall came to a head when the greed
of developers began to exceed the limits set by environmental protectionists.” “Tension in the Gulf Region came
to a head when oil reserves began to be threatened.”*

Brought to the boilingpoint
Just as water may be brought to the boiling-point by heat,
so a person’s patience may reach a pressure point where
he loses his temper. “My blood was finally brought to a
boiling point when she suggested that I couldn’t be sure
who my father was.” “Heated debate came to the boiling
point during discussions about the proposed loan interest
rate.” “Political unrest came to a boiling point when it
became perfectly clear that the government intended to 
do nothing to help the bolster the economy.”*

Bruised and battered 
Just as after a physical fight, one’s body may be black
and blue from being beaten, so we may say figuratively
that, in the struggle of life, one comes out bruised and
battered due to suffering struggle and hardship. “The
boys returned from the battle, bruised and battered, but
still alive all in one piece.” “Shelia came out of her marriage bruised and battered, both mentally and physically.” “I had a traumatic childhood and came out of it
mentally bruised and battered, needing psychiatric counseling.”*

Brush-up on 
To go back and review and study the fundamentals of
something that you learned earlier but haven’t used in a
long while. “I’ll have to brush-up on my Algebra before I
take the entrance exam.” “To prepare myself to perform
my job in the lab, I had to go back and brush-up on my
organic chemistry.” “I’ll have to brush up on my German
before I meet with the Austrian delegation.”*

Bubbling over with joy 
Just as a brook or underground spring bubbles up out of
the ground, so we can compare the experience of joy
bubbling up from within the mind in an individual. “It’s
so much fun to be young and in love and bubbling over
with joy.” “I am so happy in this quiet place of peace and
retreat, far away from the unrelenting pressures of the
outside world, I feel I am almost bubbling over with
joy.” “Christian monks and Nuns speak of how the
power of prayer can make believers feel a sense of elation, as though they were bubbling over with elated love
and joy.”*

Buck the system 
Go against the overall system which controls you. “The
first thing you learn in the army is that you cannot buck
the system.” “There’s no way you can escape Revenue
Department Tax Regulations. You can never succeed in
bucking the system.” “Just in the way that a wild pony
may be able to buck off a single rider who is trying to
break it in and tame and control it, there’s no way a private, individual citizen can buck the overall system of
government, because no one is above the law.” *

Bucket of worms 
Just as sorting out a bucket of worms can be considered
unpleasant, impossible job, so taking over an unpleasant
situation to resolve, that nobody else even wants to try,
may be called a ‘bucket of worms,’ meaning that the
situation is so unpleasant and impossible that no one
would ever be able to get it sorted out right. “The marriage of Bob and Carol is a bucket of worms that not
even the most-experienced marriage counselor would
ever be able to sort out.” “The situation in Northern Ireland is a bucket of worms that no one will ever be able to 
sort out properly.” “The conflict of interests between the
Revenue Department and the ministry of Health in relation to the Tobacco Monopoly is a bucket of worms that
is never going to get sorted out.” *

Buckle under 
Just as thick metal will bend under pressure, so a person
may be forced to bend his will in accordance with what
controls the pressure placed upon him. “The Finance
Minister is very determined to hold his position, but most
of his party is trying to get him to buckle under pressure.” “There are enormous pressures coming at me from
every side, but I refuse to buckle under and conform to
the will of others.” “If we exert enough force on poor old
Pinkerton, he will have no choice but to buckle under
pressure and vote for the constitutional amendment.” *

Buckle-down 
Start to apply yourself and work hard on something; set
yourself to accomplish a task; concentrate and focus
upon your work. “OK boys, let’s stop fooling around and
buckle down to work.” “Its time I got serious and started
to buckle down and study hard for my CPA exams.” “If
you don’t force yourself to buckle down and concentrate
on your work, you will soon find yourself out of a job.” *

Buckle-up 
In addition to meaning fasten your seat-belt in a vehicle,
“buckle-up” can mean literally to adjust your trousers
and belt-buckle or figuratively to adjust yourself appropriately so that you will make a better impression and
have better control of your movements and actions.
“When you travel by car, don’t forget to buckle-up your
safety belt. It is better to be safe than sorry.” “You had
better buckle-up and improve your behavior, or the principal will suspend you from school.” “I have been given
written-notice by the company that if I do not buckle-up
my performance and improve my ways, I will be asked to
resign from the firm.” *

Budding genius 
Just as a rose is budding before it blooms, so we may say
a person is a budding genius. “From Einstein’s performance in school, nobody could have guessed that he was a
budding genius.” “From the time he was a boy in school,
Huxley showed signs of being a budding genius.” “You
probably have to be a near-budding genius to be accepted
to do post-doctoral work in physics at Harvard Graduate
School.” *

Bugaboo 
Belief with no basis; imaginary cause of fear; a lot of
nonsense. “Don’t believe anything you hear about superstitions. It’s all a lot of bugaboo!” “Those stories about
aliens from another planet landing on earth are nothing
but a lot of bugaboo.” “All that stuff they tell you about
Hell is just a lot of bugaboo. Hell is really right here on
this earth.”* 

Bugger-off! 
An impolite slang way of saying, “Get away from here!
Disappear and get lost.” “If you don’t bugger-off and get
out of here right now I’m going to give you a box on the
ear.” “You’d better bugger-off before your father finds
you here or he will kick your ass!” “I’d better bugger-off
and get a move on before the dorm supervisor catches me
out-of-bounds!” *

Building castles in the air 
Dreaming impossible dreams. “Building castles in the air
that are not really there will not get you anywhere.”
“Castles in the air are like castles in the sand which, after
they are built, are bound to dissolve and disband.”
“Young couples often start off their marriage dreaming
and building castles in the air, with hopes of a happy
home and children and loads of money coming in from
everywhere.” *

Bull in a china shop 
Somebody clumsy and careless, like a bull in a china
shop, which barges in charges around and breaks things
into pieces. “Although Gifford means well deep down in
his heart, he behaves with the conduct of a bull in a china
shop.” “You can’t just barge back into my life, like a bull
in a china shop, and start breaking things up again.”
“Don’t barge in here like a big, wild bull in a china shop
and start breaking up people’s illusions and destroying
the hopes that will motivate them to get there.” *

Bull’s-eye! 
Correct! Right on! That’s the right answer! You got it!
You hit it head on! “Good thinking! Bull’s eye! You hit
the target right on center.” “Bull’s eye! That’s it.” You
hit he answer I was looking for! You hit it right on the
head!” “ How did you know what I was thinking? ‘Bull’s
eye!’ You guessed the right answer to the sixty-four
thousand dollar question!”*

Bulldoze your way through
Just as a big bulldozer can force its way through scrub
jungle and forest to level a path to where it wants to go,
so a person may be said to push his way through to
where he can get what he wants.” “Here comes Big Bob
bulldozing his way through the crowd up towards the
bar.” “Don’t think you can just bulldoze your way in here
and tell everybody what to do.” “We can get the vote to
go our way if we get enough support to level any opposition and try to bulldoze our way through.” *

Bullshit! 
A load of crap; a pile of lies. “When men sit around and
drink they talk a lot of bullshit and lies.” “Don’t try to
tell me you just plain forgot. That’s a lie. That’s bullshit!” “I have never heard such an outrageous lie in my
life. What a load of bullshit!” *

Bully for you! 
Congratulations! Well-done; good for you; I’m proud of
you; that’s the way to behave; that’s the way to go; you
should be proud of yourself. “I hear you punched that big
bruiser, Butch, right in the nose. That’s the way to go!
Bully for you!” “I like the way you stand up to the boss
and tell him exactly what you think. Bully for you!”
“You managed to get the promotion despite your lack of
seniority. Bully for you!” *

Bumble along 
Stumbling your way slowly and clumsily along your path
but somehow managing to reach your goal. “Now that I
am older, I am forgetting things and losing my manual
dexterity, but I still manage to bumble along and make
my way in life despite the infirmities of my age.”
“Grandmother is not quite all there anymore but, somehow, she manages to bumble along through life without
doing herself any harm.” “Ichabod was an awkward,
gawky and clumsy fellow who bumbled along in his own
peculiar way, but, somehow, stuck to the proper path and
didn’t go astray.” *

Bummed-out 
Feeling down-and-out, depressed and disillusioned as
though you had a hangover from life’s bad experiences.
“Ted is feeling kind of bummed-out today because his
girlfriend wants to break up with him.” “Teenagers usually go through as stage or phase in which they feel
bummed-out and think that all he world is stupid.” “The
boys in the band are feeling bummed-out because they
didn’t get the recording contract they were hoping for.”*

Bump into one another 
Just as two cars might accidentally bump into one another, so two acquaintances might meet somewhere, by
coincidence, as if absolutely by chance. “It is quite a coincidence our bumping into one another like this, after
not seeing one another for more than twenty years.”
“Sometimes, old school friends, who have lost contact,
bump into one another, again, later in their professional
lives.” “Fancy us bumping into one another like this unexpectedly both pregnant and both in the same hospital at
the same time!” *

Bundle of nerves 
A body aggregate that seems to consist of nothing but
anxieties and sensitive nerve-endings. “I have become a
real bundle of nerves due to the uncertainties of my jobsituation and my unstable marriage.” “During the apprenticeship period in my job, at first, I was a real bundle of
nerves, but after I had learned the routine, I settled into it,
and, now, I am much more relaxed.” “Before the entrance examination, I was a real bundle of nerves, but,
after I sat down and read the question papers over a couple of times, I settled down and was able to concentrate
my mind.” *

Bungle things up 
To botch-up and make a mess of a task or a job; to do
every thing wrong. “I’m sorry I botched the job; I’m always getting things bungled up.” “I made so many mistakes in my job at first, it seemed that I was botching and
bungling everything up to the point where I couldn’t get
anything right.” “I am afraid I have made a mess of the
job and bungled everything up, but, I apologize, and I
promise to try to do a better job next time.”*

Burbling with joy 
Just as a stream or brook makes a burbling sound as
though water were happily bubbling up, so we may say
that a person is burbling with the joy in the happiness of
the moment. “Jane has given birth to a six-pound healthy,
happy burbling baby boy, and both mother and child are
well and healthy.” “We could hear the children playing
out in the sunlit yard, burbling with joy.” “I always look
forward to watching my children burbling with joy and
delight as they open their presents under the Christmas
tree.” *

Burn your fingers 
Just as one burns one’s fingers by touching something
hot, so one may be said to get one’s fingers burnt in a
bad experience in life or love or business. “When you
touch a hot stove and get your fingers burnt, it teaches
you to be more careful next time.” “I got my fingers
burnt in my first romance, and I am afraid to try again.”
“I got my fingers burnt in offshore investments, so I went
back to blue chip shares again.” *

Burning the midnight oil 
Just as scholars in the old days studied at night to the
light of an oil lamp, so students today who study late,
until after midnight, may be said to be burning the midnight oil; working through the night, reading or writing;
staying up late to catch up on homework or cram for an
exam. “When I was a student, I used to play all day and
burn the midnight oil at night.” “When I left writing an
essay to the last minute, I used to have to burn the midnight oil and sometimes even pull an all-nighter.” “The
experts will be burning the midnight oil tonight trying to
figure out to what extent the expected volcanic eruption
in Hawaii could cause a Tsunami that would devastate
the whole of the Japanese East Coast.”*

Burning your bridges behind you
Just as a General in retreat may gain time and advantage,
by burning his bridges behind him so the enemy cannot
catch-up behind him easily, so some individuals cut-off
contact to people they have used or used to know in the
past, once they begin to succeed on a higher social scale
or level. “Don’t use people and then leave them in the
lurch. It makes no sense to burn your bridges behind
you.” “When I was young, I used a lot of women for my
own satisfaction and always burned my bridges behind
me.” “It’s never a good idea to drop old friends when
you get newer, richer and better ones. It’s like burning
your bridges behind you.” * 

Burning-desire 
Wanting something so much that you are almost on fire
with craving and desire; an overpowering, compulsive
need for someone, something; the fulfillment of a wish or
ambition; a strong wish; an overpowering need.
Tina has the burning desire to complete her examinations
and become a CPA.” “Ted has a burning desire for
Tina.” “If you have a burning desire for success and you
have talent and you work very hard, you may very well
succeed.”*

Burn-out 
Means working so long and so hard that one has a breakdown and becomes incapable of continuing to work at
one’s job. “A lot of audit staff start to suffer from burnout after about ten years on the job.” “He was a highlypaid stock broker on Wall Street for twenty years until he
finally suffered from burnout, and now he is just a downand-out, sit-at-home-drunk.” “I want to live hard and die
young; I don’t want to work hard all my life for a heartless corporation until I finally burn out and wait until
they throw me out.” *

Burst a blood vessel 
A state of anger which is so strong that you might literally burst a blood vessel. “When I found out the immigration lawyers had lost my documents, I almost burst a
blood vessel.” “Mom almost burst a blood vessel when
she learned that her one and only daughter was pregnant
at only sixteen.” “The Managing Partner will burst a
blood vessel when he finds out the Revenue Department
is planning to do a tax review of our firm due to an unjustified claim I put in.” *

Burst in on someone 
To interrupt someone when he is in the middle of something else. “Sorry to burst in on you like this, but I need
to speak to you urgently.” “Don’t burst in on someone’s
conversation unless you are invited to.” “The private detective burst in on the adulterous lovers in their hotel
room and took a photograph of them lying stark naked
together in bed.”*

Burst out into a rage 
Suddenly lose control and break out into anger. “I used to
often burst out into a rage of anger, but, now, through
meditation, I am gaining better mind control.” “Father
burst out into a rage of temper when he found out that
Mother had poured his bottle of whiskey down the sink.”
“Try to train yourself not to burst out into a rage every
time something doesn’t go your way.” *

Burst the bubble 
Shatter the illusion; break the fantasy. “Young love
seems like a perfect dream until some prick comes along
and bursts your bubble.” “We had high hopes that our
stock price would gain dramatically in value, but, then,
the stability problems caused by the Gulf War came
along and burst the bubble.” “During the eighties, it 
seemed that the economy would continue to grow and
rise and soar forever, but, then, the Baht devaluation
came and burst the economic bubble.” *

Bury the hatchet 
When Red American Indians used to make peace, they
would ceremoniously bury the war hatchet to show that
they would no longer continue fighting, “Mom and Dad
have decided to bury the war hatchet and try to get along
for a change.” “It’s time for the Muslims and Jews to finally bury the hatchet and begin replacing latent hate
with universal love.” “I have told my children that if they
do not bury the war hatchet and stop fighting amongst
themselves, I’ll cut them all out of my will without a
penny.” *

Bust a gut trying 
Just as it is possible that we may burst an internal organ
by pushing or lifting too hard, so we can figuratively say
that we ‘bust a gut’ trying to finish our work or reach our
goal. “I’m going to meet my sales target or bust a gut trying.” “Here I am, out working hard in the world, busting
a gut trying to earn a living, when all you can do is sit
around at home alone and moan and complain.” “I am
either going to bring home the Olympic Gold in weightlifting or bust a gut trying.” *

Bust your butt 
Work really hard to get a difficult job done; do your utmost; make the maximum effort in order to fulfill requirements. “The Sales manager told us that if we didn’t
get out and bust our butts, he would not only lower our
commissions, but also cut the Christmas Bonuses.” “I
don’t know why I have to be out busting my butt to earn
a decent living, when you guys are sitting around drinking beer and accomplishing nothing.” “Now you have
graduated, the easy part is over. Next, comes the hard
part in which you have to go out into the real world and
bust your butt for the next forty years.” *

 Bustling with activity 
 Busy, full of life, active, alive with people on-the-go,
hustling and bustling, going about their business. “The
Shopping Mall was bustling with activity on Saturday
afternoon because there was a spring sale with all items
marked down by fifty-percent.” “The thing I like about a
carnival ground is that there are people milling about
everywhere, busy enjoying themselves and the grounds
are bustling with activity.” “Between nine and twelve the
lobby of our building is almost empty, but as soon as
lunch hour begins, it is bustling with activity, with hundreds of executives and office managers and smartlydressed, professional women on their way to lunch.” *

Busy-body 
Nosey-gossip; curious blabber-mouth; someone who
mixes in other’s affairs. “She’s such a busy-body, always
sticking her nose in everybody’s business and then going 
around town gossiping about them.” “You will have to
stop being such a gossip and busy-body and learn to
mind your own business.” “Be careful what you tell my
Aunt Molly because she is such a busy-body the news
will be all over town before you know it.” *

Butter someone up 
Get on the right side of someone by using sweet talk,
false praise or compliments. “I’m trying to butter up my
boss at the moment, because I’m planning to ask him for
a raise next month.” “Don’t try to butter me up to win me
over. I’ve made my final decision and no means no.” “If
you try to butter me up to get on my good side, just to get
what you want, I shall consider this a unethical tactic that
can only work against you.” *

Butterfingers 
This is a name we call someone who cannot catch a ball
when it is thrown to him, or someone who is always
dropping things; as though he had butter on his fingers
and everything kept slipping from his grip or grasp. “The
other kids call my son ‘butterfingers’ because he keeps
dropping the baseball when they throw it to him.” “The
baseball right-fielder, Drew Dropper, seems to have a
case of butterfingers today, because this is the fourth
time he has dropped the ball on what looked like an easy
catch.” “Everything our cook, Jean, picks up seems to
slip through her fingers and drop onto the kitchen floor.
So we’ve started calling her ‘butterfingers.’” *

Butterflies in your stomach
Feeling uneasiness or queasiness in your stomach due to
nervousness, apprehension and anxiety before event, a
public appearance. “When I was in the school play, I had
butterflies in my stomach, while I was waiting in the
wings, behind the scenes, but the moment I got on stage,
I said my lines and forgot my fear.” “Before my oral
exam, I had butterflies in my stomach, but the moment
they asked the first question, my mind clicked into gear
and my brain started working.” “Before I asked your
mother to marry me, I had butterflies in my stomach, but,
the moment I saw the smile on her face my apprehensions disappeared.” *

Butt-in 
Interrupt the conversation; break in when other people
are talking; force your way and mix into a discussion
when it is not your business. “My mother told me it is
impolite to butt in when other people are talking.” “Sorry
to butt in on you like this, Sir, But the Prime Minister is
on the phone and wants to speak to you.” “The problem
with Freddy is that he’s always butting in on other people’s conversations and interrupting them where he is not
wanted.” *

Buttonhole someone 
Force someone to listen, just as though you had taken
hold of the buttonhole of his suit-jacket and won’t let go 
until he has heard what you wish to say. “Don’t try to
buttonhole me and tell me your troubles. If you don’t let
go of my jacket right away, I will punch you right in the
face.” “Aunt Clara is always trying to buttonhole others
and ask them for donations for charity, but people are
getting sick of it, and they run the other way when they
see her coming.” “Sheila is going to try and buttonhole
the Ambassador at the reception tomorrow evening and
ask if the Ladies’ Club can hold a Garden Party on the
Embassy Grounds on the last Sunday afternoon of the
month.” *

Button-up 
Close your lip; don’t say a word to anybody; keep this a
secret; keep your mouth shut. “This secret is just between
you and me, so button up, and don’t tell anybody.” “Better button-up your lip and not tell anybody what you
have just said to me to avoid difficulty.” “I’ll kill you if
you tell anybody it was me that set the barn on fire, so
you had better button-up your lip and swear to secrecy or
you’ll be sorry.”*

Butt-out! 
Move your ass on out of here; beat it; get lost; bugger
off. “Butt-out can’t you see where you are not wanted?”
“Butt out of here, Buster, this is a private party and we
don’t want any strangers around here.” “I wanted to tag
along to the pub for a drink with Dad and his pal,
Mickey, but they told be to butt-out and go straight home
like a good boy.” *

Buy time 
Find a way to stall to gain more time as a deadline is approaching. “Your father tried to buy time by asking me to
postpone our wedding until after he graduated, but I told
him it was either ‘now or never’ so, then, he gave in and
let me win.” “The government is trying to buy time by
postponing the debate on the tax rebate, but they will
have to pass the bill sooner or later no matter what they
try to do.” “I am trying to buy time with the bank by asking them to let me restructure my finances, but both they
and I know they will turn me down, so I will have to declare bankruptcy eventually.” *

Buzzing with activity 
Busy, with people moving about; like bees in a beehive;
buzzing in a swarm, at close quarters, within a specific
area, alive with activity. “The new shopping center is
buzzing with activity, because they are offering a twenty
percent discount on every item purchased.” “Before the
convention began, the hotel lobby was buzzing with people and activity, but after everyone entered the main
meeting hall, the lobby was almost empty.” “The fair
ground was buzzing with activity, alive with hundreds of
people bustling about, enjoying themselves taking part in
games and rides and shooting galleries and freak shows 
and a variety of carnival activities.” *

Buzz-off 
Just as an annoying fly will buzz-off and fly away if we
try to swat it, so we may tell an irritating person to buzzoff and go away; piss-off; bugger-off. “Buzz-off and stop
annoying me before I smack you one.” “You’d better
buzz-off and stop making a nuisance of yourself, or I’ll
give you the licking of your life.” “We’d better buzz-off
before anyone sees us in this restricted zone, or we might
get into trouble.” *

By a hair’s breadth 
Implying an increment of measurement in width comparable to the breadth of a hair. “The winner of the horserace beat the runner-up by only a hair’s breadth, by a
whisker, so to speak.” “The coalition beat the opposition
in the election, by a very narrow margin, by only a hair’s
breadth.” “The final results of the data of the two independent research studies were so similar that there was
only a hair’s breadth between them.” *

By fits and starts 
Beginning only slowly and irregularly and continuing
with many irregular stops and starts along the way. “I am
having trouble with my motorcycle, due to an electrical
problem, and it only runs in fits and starts.” “I am making slow progress with my book, working a little bit at a
time, here and there, when I can, by fits and starts.” “The
company is growing by fits and starts, sometimes slowly
and sometimes quickly, depending on how the orders are
coming in.” *

By hook or by crook 
Just as shepherds used to use an iron hook or a wooden
crook on the end of a stick to catch a sheep by the neck
to separate, or perhaps steal it, out of the flock, so, nowadays, we say we will do what ever we have to, one way
or another, to achieve what we desire, using whatever
device or trick it takes to make it work. “Some people
desire success so much that they will do whatever they
have to, by hook or by crook, to get them where they
want to go.” “Once you get into the habit of achieving
your ends by hook or by crook, you will have compromised your moral outlook.” “It won’t be easy to get the
Customs Department official to go along with such a
shady deal, but we will do whatever we have to do, by
hook or by crook, to achieve the ends desired.” *

By leaps and bounds 
Just as a frog jumps forward quickly, by leaps and
bounds, so we may say that person or project is making
quick progress by leaps and bounds. “My business is
growing is rapidly, by leaps and bounds.” “The economy
is gaining rapidly, by leaps and bounds.” “The government is fighting the spread of malaria and making headway by leaps and bounds.” *

By the seat of your pants 
Guessing as you go along, based on your own initiative, 
without any map, chart or guideline to follow. “Sometimes, when visibility is limited and a pilot does not have
a navigational chart to follow, he has to fly by the seat of
his pants to locate and land on the runway.” “The local
fishermen do not rely on a compass or autopilot. They
just navigate by the seat of their pants.” “Sometimes,
when a small business man has not plotted-out a definite
business plan, he has to navigate by the seat of his
pants.” *

By the skin of your teeth 
Just barely; by a small margin. “I only passed the exam
by the skin of my teeth.” “The pilot performed a risky,
delicate, emergency landing, and we just missed death by
the skin of our teeth.” “Daredevils excite their audiences,
by coming within an inch-of-their-lives and just missing
danger by the skin of their teeth.” *

By the thousands 
An expression indicating crowds in countless numbers.
“Fans by the thousands lined the streets to see the procession of Manchester United returning home from the
airport after the winning the championship match.”
“People by the thousands are being converted to a new
religion called ‘Amway.’” “Illegal immigrants are gaining entry into the country in truckloads, by the thousands,
in countless numbers.” *

By word-of-mouth 
From time immemorial, news has been passed down
orally from generation to generation, from person-toperson, using the spoken word. “Nowadays, news and
information are disseminated through mass media networks, but gossip and slander are still passed on by
word-of-mouth.” “Our business does not advertise. We
are so exclusive that we rely only on word-of-mouth
communications and recommendations.” “Paulo’s Pizza
Parlor has gained a good reputation and developed a lot
of customers depending solely on word-of-mouth communication from person to person.”*

By-the-board 
Just as a ship can lose a part of its cargo of goods overboard, so one’s hopes or assets can go by the board and
be lost irretrievably. “All the cargo that was not tied
down on the deck of the boat was washed overboard in
the storm. Everything that was not lashed-down went bythe-board.” “When the Air Force discovered I had bad
eyesight problems, my planned flying career went bythe-board.” “When the economic crisis ate up all my
business assets, all my hopes for success went by the
board.” *

By-the-book 
According to regulations and standard procedures; following guidelines laid down by officials or authorities;
sticking to the generally-accepted practices and principles. “We have to follow tax procedures by-the-book, or 
131
there is a danger that a deviation could result a tax examination.” “When police arrest a suspect and write a
report, they do it by-the-book, following standard procedures to keep the records straight.” “There can be no exceptions to the rule, so we have to process your case bythe-book to avoid any accusations of bias or favoritism.”*

Caged-in like a wild animal
Just as a wild animal will not be happy to be kept in a
cage, so a person who doesn’t have the freedom of
movement he desires may say he feels caged-in like a
wild animal. “I don’t want to go to prison and be cage-in
like a wild animal.” “I hate being restricted to a hospital
room and being caged-in like a wild animal.” “I don’t
want to be caged-in an office and chained to a desk like a
wild animal all my life. I would rather be out on the road
visiting clients in their offices.”*

Calculated-risk 
Sometimes, we take a risk, because we hope it will be
worth it, even though we may not have a one hundredpercent chance of success. “Getting married, even though
it may be based on high hopes, is always a calculated
risk.” “It’s a calculated-risk investing in gold-mining in
New Guinea, but if it pays off it will be worth it.” “In
investing funds, we often put most of our money into
blue chip shares, but, at the same time, put a certain percentage that we can afford to lose into calculated-risk
investments.” *

Call a spade a spade. 
Saying directly that a bad thing is exactly what it is.
“Sometimes, you have to call a spade a spade and name
an evil thing as being exactly what it is.” “I hate to call a
spade a spade, but I happen to know that Monica’s new
boyfriend is a sadistic and dangerous man.” “I am sorry
to have to tell you that your joint-venture partner is a
known-criminal and ex-convict, but I have to call a spade
a spade when I see one.” *

Call in favor of 
Just as the umpire in sports makes a call or judgment in
favor of one side or the other, so, a judge may, for example, make a decision on favor of the plaintiff or the defense. “The High Court has made the call in favor of City
Hall.” “The interview-committee has made the call in
favor of the candidate with the most experience.” “It was
a difficult case to call, but the judge finally decided in
favor of doing nothing at all.”*

Call into question 
To doubt and question the reliability or the truth of something. “There is some new, forensic evidence that calls
into question the presumed-innocence of the accused.”
“New linguistic research calls into question the assumption that words stand for conceptual ideal things.” “Medical researchers are collecting evidence to call into question the common belief that the cause of cancer is always
physiological.” *

Call it a day 
Decide to stop work for the day; say it is time to stop
work for now, and, then, continue tomorrow; quit working when everyone is tired at the end of the day. “OK,
boys, that’s it. We’ve finished the job, and it’s time to
pack up and call it a day.” “It was beginning to rain about
five o’clock in the afternoon, so the foreman said to pack
up our tools and call it a day.” “When you are too physically tired to continue to work any more, your body tells
you it is time to call it a day.” *

Call it off 
Postpone or cancel a plan or event. “We had a meeting
planned for tonight, but we had to call it off and postpone
it until next week.” “There was supposed to be a baseball
game this afternoon, but we have had to call it off on account of rain.” “Jane’s family was planning her wedding
for sometime in June, but the groom backed-out, and
they had to call it off.”*

Call it quits 
Give up; stop making an effort; stop trying; throw in the
towel; stop what you are trying to do. “You can’t fight
city hall on urban development, so why even bother trying? Let’s call it quits and throw in the towel.” “Even
though we have good intentions, our relationship is not
working, so let’s just call it quits and get on with our
lives.” “I tried working and doing graduate work at the
same time, but I almost had a nervous breakdown, so I
decided to call it quits and give up my studies.” *

Call of nature 
A polite way of saying that you have to pee-pee or urinate (relieve yourself by voiding urine). “Excuse me,
please, but I have to follow the call of nature and go to
the toilet for a pee.” “Sometimes, the call of nature takes
me away from my computer, and I have to run to the
wash room.” “I was suddenly overcome by the call of
nature out in the middle of Central Park, so I had a peepee behind a tree.” *

Call-off the dogs 
Just as a pack of hounds may corner a fox and keep it at
bay until they are called-off by their master, so we may
sometimes find ourselves threatened by criticism and attack from all sides and figuratively beg the person incharge to call off the dogs. “OK. I am ready to give into
pressure and do what the President wants, so get him to
call-off the dogs.” “The Foreign Minister made a plea to 
the heads of all conflicting nations to call-off the dogs of
war and strive to seek universal peace.” “There was a
time when small shopkeepers had to pay protection
money to local mafia to call-off the dogs and thugs, who
would, otherwise, come in and wreak and break-up their
shops.” *

Call-off the meeting 
Cancel or postpone. “Because the general manager fell
ill, we had to call-off the meeting.” “Because there was a
mudslide in the mountain pass the Masonic Lodge had to
call-off its scheduled meeting.” “Due to circumstances
beyond our control, we regret to inform you that we will
have to call-off and postpone the meeting indefinitely.”*

Call the shots 
Give the orders; be in command; be the one in control
who decides; tells others what to do. “I want to found my
own company and be the one who calls the shots.” “I am
the one in command. I call the shots here, and when I
give an order, you must obey without question.” “When
he is at work, Dad calls the shots, but when he is at
home, Mom calls the shots.”*

Call the tune 
Just as the one who pays a tip to the band can choose the
next tune or song he wants to hear them play, so the person in control of the money is usually the one who calls
and controls the tune in money-matters or business. “As
long as I control the family finances, I am the one who
calls the tune.” “At home my wife calls the tune, but
when I am out alone on my own, I whistle as I will.” “If
you think that you are so big and that you are the one
who gets to call the tune, think again. Nobody here is going to follow you.” *

Call your bluff 
Just as in the game of poker when someone is pretending
to hold high cards and we can ‘call the bet’ and ask for a
show of cards to see if he is actually bluffing, so we say
we call a person’s bluff when we know he is lying, deceiving or cheating for his own advantage. “I told him to
put his money where his mouth was in order to call his
bluff.” “Shelia suspected he was lying about wanting to
marry her, so she asked him to set a wedding date to call
his bluff.” “I knew he was lying about having enough
money to invest, so I asked to see his bank statement to
call his bluff.”*

Callous remark 
Hurtful, heartless, insensitive, cold, cruel, comment
showing lack of feeling for others. “Calling me a coldhearted bitch was a callous remark.” “Marge is always
making cruel, callous remarks which hurt me and make
me feel resentful.” “I don’t want to hear anymore of
your callous remarks. If you don’t have something warm
and kind and understanding to say, don’t say anything.” *

Calm before the storm 
Just as the weather can be calm before a violent storm 
breaks loose, so we may say, “A person is in a state of
calm before he loses control of his anger and temper and
all hell breaks loose. “Keith was brooding and silent for
weeks before he killed all his family, but this was the
calm before the storm.” “The general manager was silent
in the calm before the storm all week long before he finally burst into a violent rage and told the staff they had
better follow orders or he would get rid of all of them.”*

Calm down 
Don’t be so excited. “Calm down and don’t be so excited. There is nothing to worry about.” “Often, when
people make me angry, I count slowly from one to ten, to
calm myself down.” “Calm down for a minute and listen
to what I have to say before you jump to wrong conclusions and get mad for no good reason.” *

Can barely hear myself think
It is so loud that the noise confuses you and you can’t
think clearly, can’t follow your own line of logic because
the noise is so distracting. “It’s so loud in my office I can
barely hear myself think.” “Turn down that music! I can
barely hear myself think.” “When I go into a big,
crowded disco, it’s so loud I can barely hear myself
think.” *

Can see a mile off 
Evident to everyone; anyone who looks will be able to
see. “Anyone can see from a mile off that she is just a
cheap, painted tart.” “Anyone can see from a mile off
that the Republicans are motivated by material selfinterest.” “Anyone can see from a mile off that you and
the rest of your family are lying.” *

Can’t bear to think about it.
The thought is unendurable. “I know my father is slowly
dying, but I can’t bear to think about it.” “I can’t bear to
think of what may happen if the bottom falls out of the
stock market,” “I can’t bear to think of what will happen
when man has finally destroyed the environment that
supports him.” *

Can’t cut the mustard anymore.
Just as an old farmer may not have the strength to go out
to cut and harvest a field of mustard the way he used to
do, so we say that a person becomes too old and weak to
go out and do things that an able-bodied man can do.
“Uncle Jake used to be able to cut a whole field of mustard grass by himself alone in one day, but, now, he’s too
old to cut the mustard anymore.” “Don’t count on Dad to
be able to help out with any physical work. He’s too old
to cut the mustard anymore.” “I used to have a lot of
women, but, now, I’m too old to cut the mustard anymore.” *

Can’t get a word in edgewise
You cannot find an opportunity to get in even one word
into the conversation, because people are talking so much
and so fast, without pause, that you cannot break in.
“When my parents are arguing, and I want to break in 
and stop it, I find that they talk so fast and furiously that I
can’t get a word in edgewise.”’ “When my boss tells me
off for what I did wrong, he doesn’t even pause for half a
second, and I can’t get a word in edgewise.” “When your
superior officer gives you a dressing-down, just stand at
attention and listen, and don’t so much as try to get a
word in edgewise.” *

Can’t get along without you
I cannot live without you; I need you in order to be able
to cope with life and survive; my life has no meaning
without you; I can’t stand being alone when you are not
here with me. “I love you so much, that I just can’t get
along without you.” “Darling, please come back home
from your trip as soon as possible. I can’t get along without you.” “Whenever you go away to visit your mother
for a few days, I feel so lonely. I just can’t get along
without you any more.” *

Can’t get over it! 
I am so surprised and shocked that I can’t believe it. “I
can’t get over the fact that my sister turned out to be a
lesbian.” “I can’t get over the fact that my mother set me
out for adoption when I was only three month’s old.” “I
cannot get over the fact that my company made a three
hundred percent increase in sales last year!” *

Can’t make heads or tails of it.
Just as a coin has two sides, and it is clear which side has
the head on it, sometimes, when we cannot figure something out, or make any sense of it, we say figuratively
that we cannot make heads or tails of it. “I cannot figureout why my husband is acting so funny. I cannot make
heads or tails of it.” “Your scheme is too complicated.
It’s so confusing I can’t make heads or tails of it.” “The
basis of your reasoning makes no sense to me whatsoever. I can’t make heads or tails of it.” *

Can’t quite nail it down. 
Cannot quite figure-out or remember. Cannot pinpoint.
“Your name sounds familiar, and I know it should mean
something to me, but I cannot quite nail it down.” “I remember something from philosophy class that explains
the concept of ‘ideal reality,’ but it slips my memory,
and I can’t quite nail it down.” “I remember the face of
former Soviet Premier, but I’ve forgotten his name. It’s
there, somewhere, vaguely, in my memory, but I can’t
quite nail it down.” *

Can’t see past the end of your nose.
Cannot see what is right in front of you; cannot see the
obvious; cannot see beyond your own short-sighted opinion. “The pepper pot is right there on the table in front of
you. What’s wrong with you? Can’t you see beyond the
end of your nose?” “Anybody except you with any sense
can see that your plan will not work. Your problem is
that you cannot see past the end of your nose.” “You
cannot think in the long view over a longer period of 
time. You’re problem is that you can not see beyond the
end of your nose.” *

Can’t see the forest for the trees.
Unable to see the broad picture; only looking at what is
right in front of you; too-focused on the fine details to
see the larger view. “Sometimes, when you get too tiedout focusing on the small details you lose the broad
overview and cannot see the forest for the trees.” “Clarence is such a stickler regarding small, individual stipulations that he can’t see the forest for the trees.” “Sometimes, scientists are so focused on the fixed-data of their
research that they can’t see the forest for the trees.” *

Can’t stand it 
It’s too much for me! “I cannot tolerate all this noise. It’s
too loud. I can’t stand it.” “My boss keeps nattering and
complaining all the time without letup. So much so that I
can’t stand to hear the sound of his voice anymore.”
“That woman who sits next to me in the office is getting
on my nerves with her incessant chattering on the phone
all day. I can’t stand it any more!” *

Can’t think straight 
So many things are happening all at one time that one
becomes confused and cannot think clearly any more.
“Love has got me so emotionally confused that I cannot
think straight any more.” “I’ve got so many personal and
psychological problems that I can’t think straight anymore.” “There are so many pressures bearing down on
me in the office that I cannot think straight anymore.” *

Candid opinion 
Frank, open honest expression of opinion. “If you want
my candid opinion, I think there is no such thing as a
good politician.” “Let me give you my candid opinion
and tell you that your fantasy of owning and running
your own business is only a pipe-dream.” “There is a
new talk show on the radio on which people can call in
and express their candid opinion on the topic of the day.”*

Capitalize upon an opportunity
Take advantage of a chance. “Wait for the main chance
and then jump in and grab it. In simple language, what it
means is to capitalize on an opportunity.” “Enlisted-men
in the US Army often capitalize on the opportunity to get
a free government-supported education in their off-duty
hours.” “When the price of pork-belly is low, jump in
and buy all the shares you can so that you will be able to
capitalize on the opportunity when the price goes up.”*

Captive audience 
A group of people who must listen to someone speaking
whether they wish to or not. “In school, children are
trained into listening as a captive audience, and this, unfortunately, restricts their development of independence
and creativity.” “In Church, the priest is talking to a captive audience because one cannot just get up and walk
out the moment one begins to feel bored by a ceremony 
or the sermon.” “I never have the ego-need to become the
center of attention because I have been speaking to a captive audience in university classrooms for over forty
years.” *

Carried-away 
Just as a helium-balloon may be carried-away in the
wind, so a person may become so enthusiastic that he
loses touch with reality and is totally overcome by excitement. “In my younger years, I was so carried-away
with dreams of yachts and the sea that I almost lost touch
with everyday reality.” “Mom becomes so involved in
her baking that she gets totally carried-away and forgets
everything else she is doing.” “When I listen to Indian
Transcendental Psychedelic Music, I get totally carried
away.” *

Carrot on a stick 
Just as a carrot held out on a long stick can be an incentive for a donkey to make its next step forward, so an extra incentive may be used to get someone to do something in business or personal life. “Donald is promising
me a diamond if I will become his fiancée, but I don’t
trust him. I think he is just dangling a carrot on a stick to
get what he wants.” “The company is using extra-welfare
benefits as a carrot on a stick to get the staff to accept the
new pay package.” “The government is using tax cuts as
a carrot on a stick to win over the people and get the
popular vote.” *

Carry a torch for someone
Be in love with; feel secret love over a long time; have a
crush on. “Butch has been carrying a torch for the redheaded girl in the back row of class all semester long, but
he is afraid to come out in the open and admit it.” “I have
been carrying a torch for my old high-school sweetheart
all during the forty years I have been married to Albert.”
“I have been carting a torch for my best friend’s wife for
four years but I don’t dare tell anybody about it.” *

Carrying the world on my shoulders
Feeling personally responsible for the troubles and burdens of life and the world. “I am the only wage-earner in
the family, and, often, I feel like I am carrying the weight
of the world on my shoulders.” “When I was young, I
had a strong sense of social responsibility, and I often felt
I was carrying the weight of the world on my shoulders.”
“Don’t get all down and depressed just because life appears to be so bad that you feel you are carrying the
weight of the world on your shoulders.” *

Carve out a name for yourself
Just as you can carve your initials in a tree-trunk to beremembered-by, so you can make a name for yourself
due to your accomplishments in life and become famous
in this world. “After you graduate, you will have to go
out into the world and carve out a name for yourself.”
“Mark Twain first carved out a name for himself as a 
writer of tall tales from the American West.” “When
Godfrey was young and in his prime, he wanted to carve
out a name for himself and became rich and famous and
well-known all throughout the world.” *

Case of mistaken identity 
Mistakenly thinking that someone you see someone else
you know. “Oh, excuse me, I took you for someone else.
Please forgive me. It was a case of mistaken identity.”
“Sometimes, I go up to a person who looks like someone
I know and start talking, but then, I am ashamed when it
turns out to be a case of mistaken identity.” “I got an income tax bill for twenty million Dollars, but fortunately,
it turned out to be a case of mistaken identity, intended
for someone else with the same name as me.” *

Case of the jitters 
Shaking with fear before an event; feeling jumpy and
anxious prior to performing; afraid and feeling nervous
before speaking to an audience. “I had a case of the jitters before the job interview, but once I sat down and
started talking, all my fears left me.” “Even famous actors sometimes get a case of the jitters before appearing
on stage.” “I sometimes get a case of the jitters when I
have to address a large audience that is unfamiliar to
me.” *

Case the joint 
Check out a site or location to note and become familiar
with its characteristics. “Drug store stick-up artists usually act on impulse without casing the joint beforehand.”
“Spike cased the joint he was planning to rob so he
would be familiar with the surroundings.” “Before bank
robbers actually carry out the robbery, they spend considerable time staking-out the building and casing the
joint in order to be familiar with the bank’s daily pattern
and routine.” *

Cash in on an opportunity
Take advantage of an arising situation; capitalize on an
opportunity. “Cash in on the opportunity to become the
first person to join the Amway team in the new year and
win a holiday for two in Hawaii.” “Cash in on the opportunity of getting a free university education by joining
the Army Officer’s Training Program.” “Cash in on the
opportunity to be self-employed and earn money from
doing consumer interviews from your own phone at
home.” *

Cash-in-your-chips 
Just as a gambler cashes-in-his-chips when he stops gambling in the Casino, so we say that we cash-in-our-chips
when we are about to die. “Old Uncle Ike left me the
farm in his will, before he cashed-in-his-chips.” “Before
I cash in my chips, I want to take a cruise around the
world and spend some of the hard-earned money I saved
over the years.” “Before I cash-in-my-chips, there are a
few old scores I would like to settle and a few people I 
would like kill.” *

Cast a glace at 
Take a look at; look over. “Just cast a glance over this
and see if you see any grammar mistakes, will you?” “I
have asked my room mate to cast a glance over my
power-point presentation to see if he has any suggestions
for improvement.” “She cast a glance over me, out of the
corner of her eye, as if to show her disapproval at the
shabby way I was dressed.” *

Cast a shadow over 
Something sad affecting an otherwise happy or joyous
occasion. “Father’s sudden death cast a shadow over the
wedding celebration of my older sister Emily.” “The terrorist bombing incident has cast a shadow over the opening ceremony of Parliament.” “The death of one of the
guests who accidentally drowned in the pool has cast a
shadow over the opening ceremony of the new Hilton
Hotel complex.”*

Cast around for 
Just as a fisherman casts his line around at different
places in a pond trying to catch a fish, so we can say we
cast around for something we’re looking for. “Shane is
casting around for a new girlfriend, but he hasn’t caught
one yet.” “Our firm is casting around for an independent
accounting firm so we can outsource our financial operations.” “I have been casting about for an idea of how to
solve my financial problem, but I haven’t found a solution yet.” *

Cast aside 
Throw away as useless no longer undesired. “Have you
ever noticed that the things we once passionately desired
are often later cast indifferently aside?” “When a woman
is cast aside as a useless, unwanted object it hurts her
feelings and injures her pride.” “There are few things
more dangerous than an expectant bride that has been
unexpectedly and abruptly cast aside.”*

Cast aspersions upon 
Making unkind remarks; suggesting unfavorable qualities; implying that you look down on someone’s capability or suitability. “Do not cast aspersions on others unless
your own motives are beyond reproach.” “My oldest sister is always casting aspersions about me, implying I am
not as smart as her.” “People who think they are better
than others are always casting aspersions about those
they consider to be their inferiors.” *

Casual comment 
Offhand remark made without thinking. “Be mindful of
your casual comments and don’t say anything you will be
sorry for later.” “Don’t be upset because I said you were
a silly sod. It was just a casual comment with no evil intention attached.” “Often, what starts off as a harmless
casual comment can grow into a harmful and exaggerated rumor as it is passed from mouth-to-mouth.” *

Casual dress 
Informal dress such as sports shirt and trousers rather 
than black suit and tie. “Guests should wear casual dress
to the barbeque and formal dress to the dinner.” “I wish I
could wear casual dress in the office rather than a white
shirt and tie.” “Since women have been allowed to wear
casual dress in the office, they no longer look so ladylike.” *

Cat and mouse game 
Just as a cat and mouse might play hide and seek, so two
people may be said to be playing cat and mouse when
one is trying to catch the other for one reason or another.
“Whenever I talk to Carina, I always have the feeling she
is playing cat and mouse with me.” “The Deputy Dean
and the Department Head are always playing cat and
mouse games.” “Don’t play cat and mouse games with
me. Just come out and ask what you want to know and
say what you want to say.” *

Catch a snooze 
Take a nap; have a short sleep. “Now that I am older, I
try to catch a snooze in the middle of the afternoon so I
won’t be so tired at night.” “Many business executives
try to catch a little snooze in their offices during lunch
break so they will be fresh in the afternoon.” “When I see
one of my students catching a snooze in one of my
classes, I walk up behind him and call out his name in a
very loud voice.” *

Catch hell 
Be in big trouble; get a telling-off; be reprimanded;
scolded; chastised. “You will really catch hell, if your
father finds out that you have started smoking secretly in
your bedroom” “I’m going to catch hell when the client
learns that I have lost his tax slip.” “Elvin would really
catch hell if father ever heard that he was supplying his
younger sister with drugs.” *

Catch hold of 
Get your hands on; get a grip on. “Wait until I catch hold
of you. I’ll give you the licking of your life.” “If I ever
catch hold of you, I’ll beat the living hell out of you.” “If
I ever catch hold of the person who stole my mobile
phone, I’ll make him feel he’d be better-off dead.” *

Catch on quickly 
Learn fast; get the hang of things. “The laboratory technician is new at the job but I notice that he is catching on
quickly.” “Please give me a chance to try my hand at the
job. You will see that I’ll try very hard and catch on
quickly.” “Don’t try lie to the new supervisor because
he’s the sort of person who catches on quickly.”*

Catch up on your sleep 
Make up for sleep lost in the past. “This weekend, I’m
not going anywhere. I’m planning on staying home and
catching up on my sleep.” “During the peak audit period,
I did not get enough sleep, so I’m taking a week off work
just to catch up on my sleep.” “When you drink and party
all night for a week, you’ll find it necessary to stop and
catch up on your sleep.” * 

Catch up on your work 
When you fall behind in your work schedule or load, you
need to make an extra effort to catch up on your work.
“I’ve had so many meetings this week that I’ve had too
little time at my desk to catch up on my work.” “My duties are getting ahead of me, so I’ll have to stay late a few
nights this week to catch up on my work.” “Over the
long holidays, a lot of files have accumulated on my
desk, so I’ll have to make an extra effort now to catch up
on my work.” *

Catch up with the others 
Just as one might be going on a walk or hike and fall behind the others and have to walk quickly to catch up with
them, so we say that in our work or obligations or duties,
we have fallen behind and have to catch up with the others so they don’t remain ahead of us.” “Jack has fallen
behind in his work on the class project, and he will have
to catch up with the others so we can give the presentation on time.” “Kurt has fallen behind in his monthly
contributions to the children’s charity fund, so he shall
have to dig in his pocket to make up the missing funds to
catch up with the rest of us.” “I have been falling behind
in my homework assignments, so I’ll have to start burning the midnight oil until I have done enough work to
catch up with the other students.” *

Catch your breath 
Pause for a minute to rest your lungs when you are short
of breath. “Let me stop and take a breath before we go up
the next flight of stairs. I’m not getting any younger any
more.” “The drill-sergeant let the men stop to catch their
breath before scaling up the cliff-side of the mountain.”
“Sometimes, when I talk too fast and furiously, I have to
stop a moment to catch my breath.” *

Catch your death of cold 
An exaggerated way of saying you get a very bad cold,
as though it might be enough to kill you. “Don’t forget to
take a warm jacket with you when you go up into the
mountains, or you will catch your death of cold.” “It’s so
freezing in my office that I am afraid I’ll catch my death
of cold.” “I caught my death of cold while skiing in
Cortina and had to have complete bed-rest in the hospital for ten days.” *

Catching on 
Becoming better-known; fast becoming more popular.
“Photographic mobile phones are fast catching on in
youth culture.” “It is amazing to see how wearing spaghetti strap blouses is catching on amongst young teenage girls.” “The idea of people using car pools to get to
work in the city is catching on in urban America, to alleviate traffic problems and protect the environment.”*

Catching on quickly 
Learning fast and getting the idea quickly. “My new secretary is catching on quickly. She will soon be familiar
with her job and be able to work independently on her 
own” “Some new recruits catch on quickly and some
never learn much at all.” “I am very canny, and I catch
on quickly when someone is trying to lie to me or trick me.” *

Cater to someone’s wishes
Be prepared and willing to follow someone’s wants, requirements and demands. “I do not want to have a job
where I have to cater to someone’s wishes. I’d rather
own my own company.” “Neither do I want to get married and have to cater to the wishes of a man who takes
me for granted.” “Get your own bloody beer from the
fridge! I’m not here to cater to your wishes.” *

Catty remarks 
Envious and sarcastic “Just because you are jealous or
envious of a friend, that doesn’t justify you making catty
remarks that criticize her character.” “The women in my
department are always making catty remarks about one
another.” “Stop making nasty, sarcastic remarks about
Sally just because she is pretty. Don’t be so catty.” *

Caught by surprise 
Caught off guard; unexpectedly taken aback; shocked or
amazed by something totally unexpected. “During the
picnic, we were caught by surprise by sudden rain showers and had to run for cover.” “I was caught by surprise
when the currency rate unexpectedly collapsed.” “The
new government was caught by surprise when the
Americans suddenly withdrew their foreign aid support.”*

Caught in the act 
Just as the police can apprehended a criminal in the action of committing a crime, so we may say we catch a
person in the act when we witness him committing a
crime or doing something he should not. “Mother caught
me in the act of stealing cookies from the cookie jar and
gave me a whack over the ear.” “If I ever catch you in the
act of using the company computer to visit sex sites
again, I’ll give you the axe.” “The CEO walked in
through my office door and caught me in the act of having sex with my secretary.”*

Caught in the crossfire 
Just as one may be located in the middle, in between, in a
place where gunfire is coming from opposing sides, so
we may say that one is caught in the crossfire between
two opposing arguments. “A TV cameraman was caught
in the crossfire between rebel and government forces and
unfortunately shot and killed.” “The liberals are caught in
the crossfire between the conservatives and the socialists
in the debate about unemployment benefits.” “The President is caught in the crossfire of criticism due to a disagreement between the radical and the right wing factions within his own party.” *

Caught in the crunch 
Just as we crunch a nut with the force of a nutcracker between two hard surfaces, so we may say, figuratively, 
that we are caught in the crunch of social or economic
pressures. “The nation is caught in the economic crunch
caused by rising oil prices.” “Decreasing taxes and improving educational benefits have left the Ministry of
Education caught in a budget crunch.” “Advanced technology is cutting industrial costs, but the work force is
caught in a crunch between improved technological efficiency and unemployment.” *

Caught off balance 
Just as a tight-rope walker may fall if he loses his balance, so we say that, sometimes, in life, we lose our mental balance or composure, especially when something
unexpected happens that we are not prepared for. “Sorry
I lost my composure at the party last night. Your turning
up with my ex-wife on your arm caught me off balance.”
“Candy’s caustic remark about my secret affair with
Cindy caught me off balance and made be feel upset and
ashamed in front of the others.” “The economic downswing has caught the government off balance, and they
are implementing cautionary measures to stabilize the
currency rate.” *

Caught off guard 
Just as a soldier on guard duty may fall asleep and fail to
guard his post against attack, so we may say we are surprised when something unwanted and unexpected happens while we are not paying attention or being properly
careful. “I’m afraid I was and caught off guard, not
watching for a drop in share prices, so I had to sell my
shares at a loss. “I was caught napping and totally off my
guard by the attempt at a hostile takeover from the shareholders on the other side.” “Pay attention to the possibility of cash flow problems in your company or you may
find yourself caught off guard in a position where you do
not have sufficient funds pay for the delivery of goods.”*

Caught red-handed 
Caught stealing or cheating with your hand still in the
process of taking what is not given. “My mother caught
me red-handed stealing out of the cookie jar.” “They
caught the cashier red-handed while she was stealing
money out of the till.” “Police caught the thieves redhanded unloading cases of whiskey from the warehouse
they had broken onto.” *

Caught short 
Find yourself short of cash; discover that you have too
little money in your pocket to pay the bill; have too little
money to meet the required sum; caught short of cash.
“Always carry a little extra cash on you to avoid the embarrassment of being caught short without enough to pay
the bill.” “I’m afraid I cannot lend you any money at the
moment. I’m caught short myself just now.” “I don’t
have quite enough money with me to pay for this last 
round of drinks. I’m afraid I’ve been caught short.” *

Caught with your pants down
Caught in the act, with your trousers still down, during or
shortly after the sexual act or in a very embarrassing
situation. “Newspaper photographers broke through the
motel room door and took a picture of the Senator caught
with his pants down.” “Lock the door my Dear. I
wouldn’t want anyone to come in and catch me with my
pants down.” “The Prime Minister is being very careful
about his present negotiations because he does not want
to be caught with his political pants down.” *

Cause for alarm 
Cause for concern; a reason to be fearful and careful.
“The sharp decline in currency values is cause for alarm
that the nation may be heading for another economic recession.” “The lack of rainfall is a cause of alarm to
farmers in the Northeast who have limited water reserves.” “The fact that Miss Davis has disappeared and
not been seen for three days is cause for alarm and police
are putting out a tracer on her.” *

Cause of frustration 
Something that holds us back from doing or getting what
we need, want or desire which makes us feel stressed and
dissatisfied. “My wife’s sexual frigidity is a cause of
frustration in our marriage.” “Having to wait to get a new
bill passed through parliament is always a cause of frustration for the people concerned.” “The cause of my frustration in the workplace is that I am unable to receive
proper recognition for my creative input and energy.” *

Caustic remark 
A sarcastic, cutting, sharp, comment intended to inflict
harm and injury. “Keep your caustic remarks to yourself,
and don’t go around saying cutting-comments that are
only meant to be hurtful to others.” “Gloria is always
making caustic remarks about the other ladies in her social group just because she is jealous and resentful of
them.” “If I hear you make another caustic remark about
me like that, I’ll personally cut out your tongue and stuff
it down your throat.” *

Cautionary measures 
Actions made in preparation to avoid or deal with an unfortunate event that can have damaging or catastrophic
consequences. “The government is taking cautionary
measures to provide medical care in case of a mass casualty and national emergency.” “I am taking cautionary
measures to see that my family will be financially provided for in case of my sudden death.” “New developments in the weather forecasting techniques of oncoming
tornadoes will give people a little more time to get out of
the area or protect their homes.” *

Cautious optimism 
Be optimistic but take care not to be too hopeful and expect too much. “A good mixture of hopefulness and cautious optimism helps to maintain a balanced attitude.” 
“Cautious optimism will help you not to be too disappointed when things don’t work out your way.” “The
State Legislature is expressing cautious optimism that the
unemployment problem may be alleviated by the commencement of planned-public work projects.” *

Cave in under pressure 
Just as a hollow below the ground may collapse under
pressure, so a person may be said to give in to political,
social or peer pressure and go against his original intentions. “My boss wanted to give me a substantial raise in
pay, but he had to cave in to pressure from the administration to economize and meet budget.” “The new Dean
was in favor of coeducational, mixed dorms, but he
caved in to pressure when the University Senate objected
on moral grounds.” “We wanted to have a simple private
wedding, but we had to cave in to family pressure from
our parents and relatives to have a big, fancy, family
wedding.” *

Cease and desist 
Stop what you are doing and don’t do it again. “The
court handed-down a cease and desist order to my exhusband to stop following me around wherever I went.”
“The military command has issued a cease and desist order to rebel commanders to stop surprise guerrilla attacks.” “The legislature has issued a cease and desist order to stop striking workers from blocking public access
to the factory gates.” *

Chafe at the bit 
Just as a horse that wants to run free, without any control,
resists being reigned-in by the rider and bites against
pressure of the iron-bit in its mouth, so we may say that
we chafe at the bit when we want to behave in a way that
we wish when someone else has control over us. “He was
chafing at the bit to run after that pretty little girl in the
yellow bikini, but his wife held him in tight reign.” “Labor Unions are chafing at the bit to get the proposedwelfare benefits approved, but the government is dragging its foot to try to slow down the process.” “I am
chafing at the bit to get started in my new job and begin
down-sizing and restructuring the company to get rid of a
lot of dead weight and a lot of bad debt.” *

Chalk up to experience 
Learning from your mistakes, as though you were writing
them down in chalk on a blackboard so you don’t forget.
“I made a lot of mistakes in my first marriage, but I’ll
just have to chalk them up to experience and try not to
make the same mistakes again.” “It was a wrong decision
to invest in Dot.Com shares, but I’ll just have to chalk it
up to experience and learn not follow the popular wave
of opinion in the future.” “Captain Morgan regrets that
he lost a lot of men in the pre-dawn raid, but he says he’s
just going to have to chalk it up to experience and not 
make the same mistake again.” *

Challenge the status quo 
Act in a way that goes against the accepted social system; defy or buck the establishment. “Ingrid appeared
topless in Prof. Adorno’s classroom with nine other girls,
just for the sake of challenging the status quo” “When he
was younger, Tony let his hair grow long as a challenge
to the status quo, but, today, he is the Prime Minister.”
“Some young socialists are blowing-up bombs in dustbins around London just to let the government know they
want to challenge the status quo.”*

Chance encounter 
Chance meeting. “I had a chance encounter with a Russian Israeli woman during the six day war that I will always remember and never forget.” “I had a chance encounter with an old school pal of mine the other day in a
crowded subway car.” “Fancy bumping into you accidentally like this right in the middle of Times Square on
New Year’s Eve. That’s really an unexpected chance encounter!” *

Chance of a lifetime 
The best opportunity you will ever get as long as you
live. “Buy a brand-new house from now, for only 20,000
Baht down-payment and 20,000 a month for the next
twenty years. Don’t miss this chance of a lifetime.”
“Joining the Amway team right now is your chance of a
lifetime to get rich quick.” “I missed the chance of a lifetime to study on a free scholarship in the USA by being
late for the interview.” *

Chancy 
A bit risky; dicey; taking a chance. “I did not invest in
Charlie’s business proposal because I thought it was a bit
chancy.” “I wanted to transfer my savings to an off-shore
bank account but, at the last minute, I changed my mind
because I was afraid it might be a bit chancy.” “Putting
all my eggs in one basket seemed a bit chancy to me so I
spread my money over a wide range of investments.” *

Change for the better 
An improvement over the previous situation. “The economic situation doesn’t look good at the moment, but the
Finance Minister is predicting a change for the better.”
“The weather was very cold in January, but, in the first
week of February it changed for the better.” “My grades
were not so good in my Freshman year, but, after I
changed my major, they took a turn for the better.” *

Change hands 
Change owners; go from hand-to-hand. “I don’t like the
look or the smell of money. You never know where it has
been or where goes when it changes hands.” “My Benz
Coupe is thirty years old and has only changed hands
three times during that period.” “This Burmese diamond
has been in my family for three generations, and we hope
it will never have to change hands.” *

Change of course 
Just as a ship changes its compass direction, so a person 
or a group may be said to have decided to change course.
“The design planning committee has decided to change
its course and cancel its financial support fore building
budget of the new city hall.” “The provincial government
has taken a change in course and is cutting educational
expenditures.” “I’ll have to try a change of course in my
tactics to get my wife to stop spending so much money.”*

Change of heart 
Change of opinion; change of mind, feeling or attitude.
“Joy was dead set against me at first, but, later, when she
got to know me better, she had a change of heart.” “Father did not approve of the girl I married, but after our
first baby arrived, he had a change of heart.” “My boss
had decided to fire me and then he had a change of
heart.” *

Change of pace 
Slow down or speed up, as the case may be, depending
on the circumstances. “The staff has been working fast
and furiously to get the quarterly review report out by
Christmas, and, then, for a change of pace, everyone is
going to stay home for a week to enjoy the holiday season.” “Once the peak audit season is over, for a change
of pace, I am going to fly to Bermuda to relax for two
weeks on the beach.” “The Monks have been working
hard finishing construction of the new crematorium, but,
soon, it will be time for a change of pace, and, then, they
can spend more time on study and meditation.” *

Change your tune 
Reversal of attitude, usually from a negative or uncooperative attitude. “You’ll soon change your tune when the
Sergeant Major comes along and chews you out for not
following orders.” When you realize all the harm your
actions have caused, you’ll soon change your tune and be
sorry for your rebellious attitude.” “When father comes
home and gives you a chewing out for being disobedient,
you’ll soon change your tune.” *

Change your ways 
Reform your habits and way of behaving. “If you want to
inherit the family fortune and take over the business, you
had better stop being a playboy and change your ways.”
“The doctor told me that I had better change my ways
and give up smoking and drinking if I wanted to continue
to live.” “Oh, Darling please take me back. If you give
me a second chance, I promise to change my ways.”*

Character assassination 
To spread bad rumors about someone that will make him
lose his good reputation. “Jean got her father did a character assassination job on me by falsely complaining to
the Dean that I had sexually molested her youngest
daughter.” “The story about the Bishop’s private affairs
is intended to throw doubt on his integrity, using the tactic of character assassination.” “When the Republicans 
encounter a strong, clean-cut Democratic Presidential
candidate, who could easily beat them in the next election, they start a character assassination campaign to
smear his name.” *

Charge your batteries 
To restore your energy, similar to charging your battery;
to take a rest and have some recreation to refresh your
self and regain power; to take some time off to regenerate your strength; to relax and do something pleasurable
to restore your forces. “A day on the golf course helps
Donald recharge his batteries.” “A night of love is the
best way I know of recharging my batteries.” “I am absolutely exhausted; I think I’ll have to take a couple of days
off to charge my batteries.” *

Charged-up 
Just as a battery may be charged-up to full-power, so we
may say that we are charged-up when we have gained
strength or enthusiasm. “The coach gave the players a
pep talk in the locker room to get them all charged-up for
the game.” “I cannot believe the way Amway gets people
all charged-up by making them think they will be rich
one day.” “I’ll have to go into isolation and do some
meditation to get my battery charged-up after this walking pilgrimage.” *

Charley horse 
A big bruise in the thigh of the leg, usually caused by a
knee-impact in sports. “Someone kicked me in the right
thigh in the rugby game, and, now, I have got a big,
black and purple Charlie horse the size of a dinner plate.”
“Look at this big bruise on my leg! I got a Charlie horse
from being kicked by my one of my pals in a soccer
match.” “My wife got mad and kicked me, I have a Charlie horse on my leg to prove it.” *

Charmed-life 
Just as we say that a cat has nine lives, so we can say that
a person has a charmed-life when he has often come near
to but avoided risk and death. “Hemingway survived two
wars, two gunshot wounds, three plane crashes and five
car accidents; he must have had a charmed-life.” “They
tried to assassinate the President seven times, but he must
have a charmed-life for each time he has come away
without even so much as a scratch.” “I must have a
charmed-life because every time I come close to danger
and risk of death, I just miss it by a hair’s breadth.”*

Chase away 
Just as we may chase a stray animal or unwanted person
away, so we say we chase away unhappy thoughts that
make us feel down and depressed. “Reading a happy
poem every day is a very good way of chasing the blues
away.” “Black people used to sing blues music to help
them chase their pain away.” “Give me another beer and
another chaser to help me chase the pain away of being
rejected in love once again.” * 

Chatter away 
Just as birds chatter away in the trees, so people may be
said to chatter away as they please “Some students like to
cut classes and prefer to sit in the cafeteria and chatter
away all day.” “After dinner, when the men go into the
library to drink brandy and smoke cigars, the ladies retire
into the lounge and sit and chatter happily away.” “Aunt
Maude and my mother are never happier than when they
find the time to sit for a while and chatter away about
how things were back in the old days.” *

Cheap Charlie 
Someone who is very stingy and will always look for the
most inexpensive place that sells for the cheapest price.
“That English man you brought into the bar is really a
Cheap Charlie. He is so stingy he didn’t even leave a
tip.” “What a Cheap Charlie he is! He won’t even reach
into his pocket when it is his turn to buy the boys a round
of drinks.” “We always have breakfast in Pattaya at a
place called ‘Cheap Charlie’s’ where you can get a plate
of bacon and eggs for thirty Baht.” *

Cheat on someone 
Two-time your lover behind his back; commit adultery
with someone other than your usual sexual partner. “I
used to cheat on my wife before we got our divorce.”
“Sarah cheats on her husband every chance that she
gets.” “If you marry me, I promise to be faithful and true
and never cheat on you.” *

Cheer-up! 
Don’t look so sad and unhappy. “Don’t be so glum; don’t
be down in the dumps. Cheer-up! Things could be a lot
worse.” “Why do you always look so sad and blue? I
wish you could cheer up for a change and put a happy
smile on your face.” “I know things look pretty bad at the
moment, but cheer-up because they could be a lot
worse.” *

Cheesed-off 
Peeved; displeased; annoyed; irked; pissed-off. “I’m
really cheesed-off that Manny got the promotion instead
of me. I’m older and have more seniority.” “I get really
cheesed-off when I arrive for an appointment on time,
and the other person comes late.” “When have to stand in
line at the post office, I get really cheesed-off when
someone tries to butt in front of me.” *

Chew someone out 
Tell him off; give him a good scolding. “The Colonel
gave his men a good chewing out for the careless way
they had behaved on their mission.” “The foremen gave
the men in his crew a good chewing out for the sloppy
way they were building the molds for the concrete
frames.” “When I see my brother, I’m going to give him
a good chewing out for always forgetting to flush the toilet.” *

Chew the fat 
Have a conversation; talk for a while, in a colloquial
manner, the way up-country people chat. “Why don’t 
you drop over to my place some time, so we can sit on
the veranda and chew the fat for a while?” “Gramps and
Uncle John used to sit on that log out there and chew the
fat all day long.” “My daddy was a hillbilly who used to
burp and fart and chew the fat a lot.”*

Chickenfeed 
A minimal amount of money; poor pay; less money than
you are worth. “A company that pays its workers chickenfeed should not be surprised if the quality of the labor
force is inadequate.” “Migrant workers are paid chickenfeed for doing low-level manual labor that local residents
will not stoop to do.” “A man of my ability will not work
for chicken feed; if you want to pay chickenfeed, hire a
chicken to do my job.” *

Chicken-out 
Just as a chicken will run if you lunge towards it, so a
person may be said to lose courage to meet a challenge
head-on. “When I was a child I said that, when I was a
man, I would go over Niagara falls in barrel, but, later,
when I had the chance, I chickened-out at the last moment.” “My brother an I planned to stick-up the candy
store, but when we got there, he was afraid to dare and
chickened-out.” “Sometimes motorcycle- boys accept the
dare to drive towards one another at a high speed on a
head-on crash collision course, and everybody bets on
who will be the first to chicken-out.” *

Chilled to the bone 
So cold you feel it in your bones. “Here in the office,
they have the air-conditioner turned-down so low that I
often feel chilled to the bone.” “When I used to ski in the
Alps at twenty degrees minus, I used to freeze the skin
off the end of my nose and get chilled to the bone.” “The
horror movie was so scary that my little sister, Evelyn,
was chilled to the bone through terror and fear.” *

Chilling scare 
A frightening experience that sends a chill through your
bones; gives you goose pimples; and makes your hair
stand on end. “Riding down the steepest curve on a roller
coaster always gives me a chilling scare.” “In the House
of Horrors, I got a chilling scare that sent a cold shudder
right down my spine.” “Witnessing the helpless, old female victim being murdered, in cold blood, like that, by
having her throat slit from ear-to-ear gave me a chilling
scare that I will not soon forget.”*

Chill-out 
Be cool, and don’t let things anger you; cool down; relax;
don’t take things so seriously. “My little brother told me
to chill-out when I began getting irritated with my little
sister’s taste in rap music.” “Be cool, Man. Chill out.
Don’t let those fools get you so worked-up. It’s no hassle.” “Chill-out. Keep cool. Never take anything adults
say seriously. They’re not hip to what’s happening.” *

Chin up 
Keep looking happy and confident by holding your head 
up high. “Don’t hang your head like that and look so
down and depressed. Chin up old boy!” “Sir William believes that one should always keep one’s chin up and try
to show a happy face.” “Never let people see when you
are weak and lose courage. Keep your chin up and don’t
look discouraged.” *

Chip off the old block 
Like father, like son. “Just as a chip off a big wooden
block will be of the same wood and grain as the block
itself, so we say that a son may be like a chip off the old
block when he resembles his father.” ‘The young Master
is a chip off the old block and will remain as conservative as his father.” “Tim is a real chip off the old block.
He behaves exactly like his father.” *

Chip-in 
Everybody pays a small amount so, all-together, they
have enough money to pay the sum. “All the girls in the
office chipped-in in and purchased Molly an expensive
wedding present.” “Everybody in the class chipped-in
and bought the teacher a gold pen as a going away present.” “Nobody had enough to pay the whole bill from
his own pocket, so we had to all chip in and share the
costs.” *

Chit-chat 
Small-talk; silly chatter. “Let’s meet for coffee and have
some chit-chat in Starbuck’s Café after work before we
go home.” “I don’t like it when students sit around and
chit-chat during my lectures.” “Young, novice monks
should learn not to make chit-chat in the temple but talk
only about the Dhamma.” *

Choked with emotion 
Literally, to choke someone means to put your hands
around his throat and squeeze so hard that he cannot
breathe, but people often say they are choked with fear or
emotion. “I wanted to ask Sally for a date, but I was so
choked-up with emotion, I didn’t know what to say.”
“Just as a drainpipe gets choked with debris, so people
often get so choked with emotion that they cannot even
speak.” “As I was about to give my graduation speech, I
stood there, choked with emotion, with tears in my eyes,
forgetting all the words I had prepared myself to say.” *

Chomping at the bit 
Just as a horse might be biting against the metal bit in its
mouth which allows the rider to restrain and control it, so
a person may be said to be chomping at the bit when he
wants to go ahead as fast and freely as he wishes without
any external control. “I am chomping at the bit to get
started on my new job with KPMG Legal and Tax right
after graduation.” “The men in the regiment are chomping at the bit to get to the front lines and fight against the
enemy.” “My husband is chomping at the bit to get his
hands on his new secretary, but I’ll soon put a stop to
that.” * 

Chosen at random 
Picked arbitrarily out of a large sample group. “We have
chosen a group at random, of ten undergraduates, out of a
larger group of one hundred, to answer a questionnaire to
get a random sampling of opinions.” “The serial killer
has murdered twelve people apparently chosen at random.” “Take ten men from your squadron chosen at random and have them report to the clinic for HIV tests.” *
Chuck overboard Just as on a ship, unwanted cargo is often thrown overboard, so we can say a person, project or idea has been
chucked overboard and discarded when no longer
needed. “The plans for the Sky-train extension line have
been cancelled and chucked overboard.” “I worked for
years to pay my husband’s way through college, but after
he finally graduated, he chucked me overboard.” “You
have become useless dead weight in the firm, and I regret
that we have decided to chuck you overboard.” *

Chucked-out 
Thrown-out. Heaved out bodily. “Clem was drunk and
disorderly and got chucked-out of the bar.” “I got
chucked-out of my job for missing too many days work.’
“Edward got chucked-out of home for not obeying his
parents’ demands to behave in an orderly fashion.” *

Claim to fame 
An achievement or event for which one has become wellknown in the past. “Danny’s only claim to fame is that
he once ate one-hundred hamburgers at one sitting and
got into The Guinness Book of Records.” “My only claim
to fame is that I was the first child born after midnight in
Thailand on first of January in the year 2000.” “Gloria’s
only claim to fame is that she once had a quickie with
Bill Clinton.” *

Clam up 
Just as a sea clam will close its shell at the slightest sign
of danger, so a person may close his mouth and stop talking when he feels afraid or intimidated. “I am so afraid of
my husband that when he gets angry and starts shouting,
I just clam up and don’t say another word.” “If I touch on
the subject of Emily’s unhappy childhood, she just clams
up and refuses to talk about it.” “Whenever I am up on
the carpet in front of a person of authority, I just clam up
and cannot think of a word to say.” *

Clamor for more 
Shout, scream yell and cry for more of the same. “When
the rock concert was over the fans kept shouting and
clamoring for more.” “After the symphony concert was
over, the audience rose to their feet and kept on clapping
and clamoring for more.” “The kids are so enthusiastic
about the fun and games that they keep on clamoring for
more.” *

Clamp down on 
Just as a clamp may be used as a tool to tighten the pressure to glue a joint at a certain point, so the government
might clamp down on some issue like the nighttime entertainment industry. “There has been a government
clamp down on drug dealers and a number of them have
been shot and killed.” “The police are beginning to
clamp down on bar-keepers who keep their places open
after closing time.” “The Internal Minister ordered a
clamp down on corruption, but he met with so much
pressure and opposition from members of his own party
that he was forced to clam up and say no more.” *

Clandestine affair 
Secret, concealed illicit love affair that you don’t want
anybody to know about. “Bill Clinton was having a clandestine affair with one of his aides which became big
news when the story leaked out to the press.” “The
Prince and Mrs. What’s-her-name had been having a
clandestine affair for years before he ever married
Diana.” “When it was discovered that the Minister of
Commerce was having a clandestine affair with a married-woman, he was forced to resign his post.” *

Class conscious 
Awareness of differences in social station; thinking that
one is better or not as good as a person on another social
level. “The upper class are said to be very class conscious and look down on the upper middle class.” “The
upper middle class are even more class conscious and
look down on the lower middle class.” “The working
class is the most class conscious because they resent the
way the middle and upper classes look down on them.” *

Clawing your way forwards
Progressing forwards with difficulty, just as a crab must
use its claws to move and pull its self slowly forwards.
“The sailing yacht was clawing its way slowly forwards
into the wind at a speed of only three knots.” “The business has not started making a profit, but we are clawing
our way forwards and hope to be showing a gain by the
beginning of next year.” “I was only a few hundred meters from the entrance to a safe harbor and tried all morning to motor my in against heavy seas and seventy knot
gale winds but I was only able to claw my way forwards
at a speed of one knot.” *

Clean bill of health 
A doctor’s report stating that someone is in good health
or an official statement that nothing can be found wrong
after a careful enquiry or examination. “I have had my
medical examination, and the doctor has given me a
clean bill of health.” “Jim has finally overcome his kidney infection so the doctor has given him a clean bill of
health and says he can now return to work.” “After the
inquiry, the Senate Investigation Committee has given
the Supreme Court nominee a clean bill of health.” *

Clean slate 
Starting-off with a clean chalk-board after erasing the
past record. “Just as on a ship, the slate-board is wipedclean of previous orders and directives when the crew on 
the watch change, so we can say that a person who is
making a new beginning starts off with a clean slate.”
“After a criminal has served his time in jail and paid his
debt to society, he is released and allowed to start off
with a clean slate.” “I have sworn to give up my wayward ways of the past and start off with a clean slate.” *

Clean up the mess 
Tidy-up a disordered room or location or sticky situation.
“If you don’t clean up that mess in your room right now,
I’m going to lock you in and let you stay there until you
do.” “Can you come back to my place tomorrow morning
and help me clean up the mess left by the party?” “After
the legal conflict became irresolvable and tempers were
almost at the breaking-point, the Mayor called-in a neutral mediator to try and help them clean up the mess.” *

Clean-cut 
With clear and visible features. “We are looking for a
young man to work in the front office who is very wellmannered and clean cut in appearance.” “Wendy wants
to find a man to marry who is tall, dark and hansom and
very clean-cut.” “I wish young people would go around
looking neat and trim and clean cut, instead of wearing
jeans and looking all disheveled and messy.” *

Clear as a bell 
Hearing or understanding something clearly and distinctly. “Listen! You can hear the sound of our voices
echoing as clear as a bell from across the valley.” “Yes
Sir! I hear you clear as a bell, and I am going to carry out
your orders.” “I understand what you are saying, clear as
a bell, without any misunderstanding, and I shall try to
behave better towards you in the future and not hurt you
feelings.” *

Clear conscience 
Free of any sense of guilt in the mind. “I can honestly say
that I have a clear conscience because I know I have
done nothing wrong or blameworthy.” Even though my
first marriage failed, I can say that I have a clear conscience for I know I tried to do everything I could to save
it.” “How can you stand there looking as if you have a
clear conscience, when every body knows you are telling
a barefaced lie?”*

Clear out of here 
Go away from here and don’t come back again; get out
of here and stay away. “Clear off! Get away! Get off my
land. Before I give you a boot up your ass.” “Haven’t I
told you never to show your face here again? If you don’t
clear out of here immediately, I am going to call the police.” “I’ve heard enough of your verbal abuse. If you
don’t shut up and clear out of here, I’ll get Daddy’s shotgun and shoot you full of buckshot.” *

Clear up a misunderstanding
Settle a dispute or disagreement; clarify misinterpreted
motives; discuss tensions to relax the situation and clear
the air. “Let’s have candid meeting and clear up the mis
understanding between us about the conditions and terms of the contract.” “My tax consultant is having a meeting
with the Revenue Department to clear up the misunderstanding about the amount of unpaid tax due.” “I had an
honest talk with my girlfriend first thing this morning
and cleared up the misunderstanding about why I suddenly disappeared without a word from the party last
night.” *

Clear-cut 
Straightforward; precise; obvious; unambiguous; definite; specific. “Your definition is clear cut, understandable and to the point. I congratulate you on your clarity
of mind.” “We must have a clear cut decision from you
by this afternoon on whether you will withdraw your
funds from the plan or not.” “I demand that you give me
a clear cut answer, one way or the other, will you marry
me or will you not?” *

Clear-off 
Get out of here; clear out of here; go away; get-off my
property; buzz-off. “If you don’t clear off my land immediately or I’ll call the police and charge you with trespassing.” “We had better clear off the premises immediately before someone finds us in a restricted area.” “I told
those kids to clear off and go away, and, if I ever caught
them stealing in my shop again, I would cut off their little fingers.” *

Cliff-hanger 
An essay or story that suddenly stops without coming to
a conclusion. “My students are always writing essays that
just stop, up in the air, going nowhere with no conclusion
or indication of where they are going. I call these papers
‘cliff-hangers.’” “I tell my students to wind-up and give a
proper conclusion to tie up the end of their oral presentations, so that they do not just suddenly abruptly stop and
leave the audience dangling up in the air like a bunch of
dangling cliffhangers.” “Her letter to me rambled illogically and incoherently around and the just suddenly
stopped in the middle of a thought. It was such a cliffhanger, I wondered if she has become mentally deranged
in her mind.” *

Climbing prices 
Just as vines can climb up a wall or tree, so prices may
creep and climb upwards. “Climbing prices have curbed
spending and started a slowdown in economic growth.”
“Climbing real estate prices in the metropolitan area have
driven developers to begin building projects on the outskirts of the city.” “Climbing prices of building materials
and higher lending rates for bank loans have slowed
down construction activity in the city center.” *

Climbing the walls 
Going crazy as if locked in a cell and climbing the walls.
“Sitting home alone like this waiting for a phone call that
never comes is driving me crazy. I’m ready to start 
climbing the walls.” “I hate just being a housewife, sitting around at home with little to do and no one to talk
to. Soon, I’ll start climbing the walls.” “After you’ve
been locked-up in a prison cell for a while, you start becoming stir crazy and ready to start climbing the walls.”*

Clinch the deal 
Clearly finalize a business agreement; agreeing on final
terms as the deciding factor; as though by a shake of the
hand. “After extended negotiations, we agreed to give
them an extra three percent to clinch the deal, and they
signed the contract then and there.” “The merger between
the two companies was signed today in a final document
that cinched the deal.” “If you want to get a construction
contract in this country, you have to pass some money
under the table to cinch the deal.” *

Clip someone’s wings 
Just as we clip the wings of a chicken so it cannot fly
very far, so we may say that we clip someone’s wings
when we want to restrain him and hold him back from
going too far. “My son is taking too many freedoms with
me. I think it is time I clipped his wings, just to teach him
a lesson.” “Ferguson is spending too much on entertainment expenses, I think we’ll have to clip his wings by
cutting his budget allowance.” “The Major is getting a bit
too big for his breeches and I think it’s time the Colonel
took him aside and clipped his wings.” *

Cloak and dagger 
Just as in the past, a murderer might conceal a dagger
under his cloak in the dark of the night, so, nowadays, we
say that someone who spies as a secret agent, under
cover is doing cloak and dagger work. “I just love to
watch foreign espionage movies. I cannot get enough of
cloak and dagger stories.” “When I was under the employ the CIA, my wife used to suspect I was engaged in
cloak and dagger work, when, actually, all I was doing
was interrogating displaced-refugees.” “The Democrats
have traditionally been against internal secret service security surveillance and clandestine cloak and dagger activities.” *

Close call 
Nearly missing; coming close to having an accident; having a brush with disaster; a close shave with death. “The
bullet whizzed past, just above my ear, only about a centimeter from my skull. That’s what I call a close call with
death.” “Just winning the election by three thousand
votes was a close call, so we will have to campaign a lot
harder next time.” “Having the freight container crash
down three feet in front of me was quite a close call. If I
had been under it, I would have been squashed as flat as
a pancake.” *

Close in on 
Surround from all sides. “Simon evaded the police in a 
thirty minute car chase, but, finally, when he came to the
intersection of King and James Streets, police cruisers
closed in on him from all sides.” “When the Highlander
troops were enclosed within the valley, English forces
closed in on them from all sides and butchered them
alive.” “Special Forces troops are at this moment surrounding and closing in on the rebel agents’ position and
demanding their surrender.” *

Close shave 
Near miss; near accident; close encounter with death.
“My brother once threw a Bowie knife at me, which
passed so close to my right cheek I could feel the motion
of the air as it whizzed by. It was literally a close shave.”
“A motorcycle zoomed past me within inches of by
breast at a hundred kilometers an hour, and I was lucky I
was not killed. It was a close shave with death.” “I had a
close shave with death one time when I skidded with my
car on the snow in a tricky mountain curve and almost
went over the edge, a thousand meters straight down to
my death.” *

Close to your chest 
Just as a poker player keeps his cards close to his chest
so no one will know what cards he is holding, so we can
say a person is ‘holding his cards close to his chest’ when
he does not want people to know what he is thinking or
feeling or doing. “The new department head plays with
her cards close to her chest, and nobody knows what is
going on in her head.” “I always hold my cards close to
my chest in university politics so nobody will know exactly what I am anticipating doing next. It always pays to
keep the confused.” “It’s always best to keep your cards
close to your chest when you are surrounded by people
who want to take advantage of you.” *

Cloud the issue 
Make a topic or subject unclear by introducing confusing
input. “Don’t try to change the subject. Stick to the point,
and explain yourself clearly. Don’t cloud the issue.”
“The lawyer for the defense tried to introduce evidence
before the court that had nothing directly to do with the
case just to cloud the issue and make the jurors confused.” “The judge, however, made a ruling that the evidence did not pertain to the case and ruled such evidence
to be not admissible. Moreover he warned the lawyer for
the defense not to waste the court’s time by trying to introduce irrelevant facts and attempting to cloud the issue.” *

Clown around 
Joke about in a silly way like a clown in the circus to
make people laugh. “If you kids don’t settle-down and
stop clowning around and get down to work, I’ll keep
you in class thirty minutes after school.” “It doesn’t pay
to clown around when you are working on the factory 
floor where accidents could easily happen.” “Jake was
clowning around with the other boys in the service garage when slipped on a slick of oil and feel headfirst into
the grease pit.” *

Clued-in on 
Knowing previously or being privy to inside information
on the matter. “Because I had been clued-in on the situation beforehand, it came as no surprise when Deputy Director resigned.” “If anything is going to happen that
could change the terms of our agreement, I want to be
clued-in on it beforehand to avoid any unpleasant surprises.” “Because the senator had not been clued-in on
the alliance between his political opponents, he was surprised when the bill he had introduced was not voted
onto legislation.” *

Coarse words 
Rude, foul-mouthed, crude language, used in a rough and
ready-to-fight manner. “Because there are ladies present,
if you gentlemen do not control your coarse words and
ungentlemanly behavior, I am afraid I shall have to ask
you to vacate the bar.” “Smoking, spitting and the use of
coarse words age not allowed in the Churchill Bar in the
British Club.” “Max and Slug had an exchange of coarse
words over a disagreement concerning whose turn it was
to pick up the tab at the bar.” *

Coast is clear 
Just an invading force attacking a coastal area must first
check and scout carefully to see that the coast is clear of
enemy surveillance, so we say the coast is clear when we
have checked to see there is no danger of our being
caught or opposed by somebody watching. “I’ll go into
his office to steal the computer disk and you keep a
watch out here in the corridor to be sure the coast is
clear.” “When you are robbing a liquor store with your
gang it is always good to leave someone out in the street
to serve as a lookout to see the coast is clear.” “When the
British landing forces were approaching for a beachhead
landing, navy planes flew over to survey the area to
check that the coast was clear.” *

Coasting along 
Just as a sail boat may cruise with the wind along the
coast without any effort, so a person may be said to be
coasting along just doing the minimum, without any extra effort. “I feel a little guilty because I am just coasting
along in my job doing the bare minimum when I know I
could be doing a lot more.” “Your son is by far the cleverest boy in the class, but he is not doing his best because
he is satisfied to be coasting along at the level of the others.” “You have been coasting along without making
your best effort for long enough. If I don’t see you start
applying yourself and making your best effort in your
job, you’ll soon be looking for a new job.” * 

Cock and bull story 
A tale that is so far-fetched that it becomes unbelievable.
“There used to be a pub called ‘The Cock and Bull’
where the men around the bar told such outrageous lies
that ‘cock and bull story’ became a common idiom.”
“Don’t give me that old cock and bull story that the car
broke down out on a country road, and you had to walk
all the way home. If you are going to lie, try to be a little
more original.” “If I tell my father the truth that I was
late because I stopped to help an old lady carry home her
groceries, he’ll never believe me, so I’m going to have to
think up some cock and bull story to try to lie-my-way
out of the situation.” *

Cockeyed-optimist 
Someone who hopes that everything will end well; believes-in the almost impossible; believes in the impossible dream; believes a silly scheme will work out-well in
the end. “My grandfather was a cockeyed-optimist who
lost all of his money believing in and investing in impossible schemes.” “Better to be a cockeyed-optimist and
believe in the impossible dream than to be a total pessimist and insist that the world is as bad as it seems.”
“Only a cockeyed-optimist would ever believe that the
world will one day be totally free of evil.” *

Cock-sure of yourself 
Arrogantly overconfident; overly sure of one’s self; as
cocky as a rooster; self-confident through hard-headed
ignorance of one’s own weaknesses or shortcomings.
“Don’t be so cock-sure of yourself; you overestimate the
value your own opinion.” “He’s so cock-sure of himself
that I would like to bring him down a peg or two.” “People who are the least educated are often the most -sure of
their opinions.” *

Code of silence 
An understanding, within a group of Mafia, policemen,
or military personnel or politicians or gang members,
never to reveal anything that they know about their fellow members. “If a member of the Mafia breaks the code
of silence and tells the police everything he knows about
the others, they will kill him.” “They say that certain
groups of police officers have an unwrittenunderstanding to always adhere to a code of silence and
never inform on another officer under any circumstances.” “When we were in school, the kids observed a
code of silence and would never to squeal or rat on one
another.”*

Coerce someone into 
Make someone do something against his will through
force, authority or intimidation. “It is blameworthy to
coerce a person into doing something against his moral
principles.” “When I was with the CIA, I often had to use
dirty tactics to coerce an operative into doing something
that went against his conscience.” “The Dean is using 
administrative pressure to coerce the faculty members
into following the Administrative Guidelines whether
they agree with them or not.” *

Cog in the machine 
A small wheel in a big machine. “In my company, I feel
like nothing more than a small cog in a big machine.” “If
you are going to work for the government, you had better
start getting used to the feeling of being only a small cog
in a big machine.” “Just as a small flywheel can be only a
small part in a very big machine, so a small person in a
huge military complex may express the feeling that he
plays an insignificant role and is wholly dispensable in a
big organization without a heart.” *

Cohabit with 
Live together with someone. “My son and his girlfriend
are cohabiting with one another, living in the same flat
without having bothered to get married.” “Nowadays,
young couples just move in and cohabit together, like
rabbits, without ever considering that they may be living
in sin.” “My father is very conservative and oldfashioned, and he says it is a sin for a man to cohabit
with a woman before they are married, and to do so is a
mortal sin.” *

Coincide with 
Happen at the same time; occur simultaneously with. “It
just so happens that my birthday coincides with that of
the Her Majesty the Queen.” ‘I’m afraid I cannot go to
your wedding ceremony because it coincides with my
graduation ceremony.” “Next year my parents’ anniversary will coincide with a lunar eclipse of the moon.” *

Cold as ice 
Showing absolutely no warmth, feeling or emotion. “My
first husband was cold as ice, but my second husband
was warm and nice.” “My boss is cool and distant, and
his manner is absolutely as cold as ice.” “I think Maude
is sexually frigid and that her heart is as cold as ice.”*

Cold feet 
Become hesitant and back out on a dare or intimidating
situation at the last minute; afraid to carry out a plan due
to fear of punishment or embarrassment. “My brother
and I were going to rob the candy store, but he got cold
feet at the last minute and backed out of the plan.” “Another time, we were going to frame the principal’s picture in an old toilet seat, but, this time, it was me who got
cold feet.” “Harry wanted to ask Norma to marry him,
but when the time came to pop the question, he got cold
feet.” *

Cold fish 
Someone with no warmth and no emotions. “Herbert’s
wife is really a cold fish. She shows no warmth or feeling
whatsoever.” “I cannot imagine that Fred and Mary have
much of a sex life. She’s such a cold fish.” “I wouldn’t
want to be married to you. You are such a cold fish, it’s
as though a dagger of ice had penetrated your heart.” 
Cold shoulder To snub someone you think is below you as though you
were turning a shoulder towards him so you don’t have
to look at him. “My girlfriend’s mother always gives me
the cold shoulder because she thinks I am not good
enough for her daughter.” “When I meet her father at an
Embassy party, he gives me the cold shoulder too.” “The
rich, snobby, Sorority girls give the cold shoulder to all
the other female students they think are below them in
social station.” *

Cold-blooded 
Merciless; with no moral feeling or regret. “A person that
kills with no feeling of shame or blame or remorse, acting out of base instincts, is said to be a cold-blooded killer.” “Some stockbrokers are so cold-blooded they don’t
care who gets hurt as long as they are making lots of
money.” “The pirates and buccaneers of old were said to
be so cold-blooded that they thought nothing of killing
the captain and all of his crew once they had boarded
their ship.” *

Cold turkey 
Stop taking alcohol or drugs and wait-out the withdrawal
period. “When I was a junky, I used to have to go into
rehab and then go cold turkey until I had passed through
the withdrawal period.” “When I was an alcoholic, sometimes, I would have to go into the clinic and I’d go cold
turkey and suffer the delirium tremens until the shaking
and quaking and other withdrawal symptoms were eventually over.” “It is said that a drug addict’s going cold
turkey causes his body to adjust to the rapidly diminishing amount of drugs in the blood resulting in both physical and psychophysical pain.” *

Collaborate with 
Work together and cooperate to achieve a certain end.
“The crime of a military officer collaborating with the
enemy is death by firing squad.” “Certain high-ranking
officers in the military have been collaborating with
powerful politicians in the government in an attempt to
overthrow the government.” “A team of expert architects
has been collaborating with a group of top structural engineers in a government-funded plan to design the new
suspension bridge.” *

Collar someone 
Just as we may ‘catch a dog by the collar,’ so we may
also catch a person by the collar who would otherwise
wish to avoid talking to us about a certain topic. “Auntie
Audrey is always collaring whoever she can wherever
she can and going on and on, talking about her health
problems.” “The other day, she collared, the Ambassador
at an Embassy lunch and was giving him an earful, but
he politely excused himself by saying he had to attend to
other duties.” “One day, I’m going to collar the big boss
and give him a piece of my mind and tell him all the 
things I resent and that are bothering me around here.” *

Collect your wits 
Gather your mental faculties; take a minute to consider
what to say or do. “Patrick couldn’t answer the question
at first, but after he had taken a moment to collect his
wits, he quickly figured out something to say.” “That is
a serious accusation, Sir. Give me a minute to collect my
wits, and I’ll try to explain to you why your presumptions are wrong.” “I’m sorry if I blamed you mistakenly.
Take a moment to collect your wits, and let me listen to
your explanation of what you have to say.” *

Collide with 
Smash or crash head-on. “One day the earth may collide
with a giant meteorite and end this world as we know it.”
“Two people who have strong, opposite opinions may be
said to have colliding views.” “I wouldn’t want to disagree with her on the topic of female activism. This is a
collision course better avoided.” *

Collision course 
Headed for a head-on crash or impact. “It is possible that
one day both the earth and a giant meteor will be on a
collision course.” “The two motorcycles were headed
directly towards one another, on a collision course, but
one of them swerved and just missed the other, coming
within an inch of his life.” “The Conservatives and the
Socialists are on a direct collision course in the parliamentary debate about welfare benefits for the poor.” *

Comb the streets 
Search the streets very closely, looking for somebody.
“Police are combing the streets for an escaped convict
wearing a black and white-striped prison uniform, and
they are expected to locate him any minute now.” “A
homeless woman dressed in a purple raincoat has kidnapped a baby in a orange pram and police are combing
the streets trying to find them.” “The Mayor says he has
ordered all the forces under his command to carefully
comb the streets in search of the missing child.” *

Combine forces 
Unite strengths. “The Conservatives and the Liberals
have combined forces to try to stop legislation proposed
by the Socialists to provide free medical treatment to the
poor.” “NATO and the UN have combined forces to take
preventive action against the threat of terrorist activities
taking place in Continental Europe.” “My brothers and
sisters and my cousins have combined forces to try to
prevent me from selling the house and land that father
left me in his will.”*

Come along 
Arise or appear or happen by chance, as if by fate. “If
you wait long enough, the right job opportunity will
come along.” “Sometimes, you cannot hurry the process
of love. You just have to wait until the right partner to
come along.” “Often in life, a moment of great happiness
comes along when you are least-expecting it.” *

Come apart at the seams 
Just as a cloth doll may come apart at the seams so we
may say a person goes to pieces or who has a nervous
breakdown is coming apart at the seams. “Due to the
pressures threatening me in my job at the office and my
pending divorce, I am about to come apart at the seams.”
“When Gary told his mother he was gay and that he
wanted to marry a boy, she almost came apart at the
seams.” “Listen, Doll, don’t come apart at the seams just
because you found out that I also have a wife and children. We can carry on our affair in exactly the way we
always have done in the past.” *

Come clean 
Confess and tell all you know; tell the truth. “My lawyer
says I had better come clean and admit my crime and ask
the judge for leniency.” “You’d better come clean and
tell me the truth, because, the longer you keep on lying,
the harder it will be on you.” “After hours of intense police questioning, Timothy finally came clean and admitted it was he who had stolen the diamonds from mother’s
safe.”*

Come close to blows 
Almost at the point of fighting. “In Taiwan, politicians
often get so worked-up in governmental discussions and
meetings that it often comes close to blows.” “The two
gentlemen of opposite views and argued so bitterly that it
almost came close to blows.” “Sometimes, in my family
at Sunday dinner the discussion gets so heated that it often comes close to blows.” *

Come down in the world 
Become less well-off; move down a rung or two on the
social ladder. “I used to have a thriving business before
the currency devaluation, but, now, I have come down in
the world and have to live on a modest income.” “Calvin
used to be a highly-respected member of society, but,
unfortunately, he came down in the world, due to addiction to drugs an alcohol, causing him to lose not only his
reputation but also his occupation.” “Eva was a famous
movie star thirty years ago, but after she got older and
became less attractive and Hollywood finally dropped
her, she abruptly came down in the world and had to
learn to live like other people.”*

Come in handy 
Keep something close at hand that might be useful someday. “I think I’ll save those big black plastic bags. You 
never know. They may come in handy one day.” “I always keep a pair of pliers in the top kitchen drawer. You
never know when they might come in handy.” “Clem
keeps a loaded shotgun in his pickup, in case it may
come in handy one day.” *

Come into money 
Suddenly inherit a lot of money and become rich. “It’s a
sin to wait for your father to die just so you can suddenly
come into money.” “I had a long lost uncle who died and
left me everything, and I suddenly came into money.”
“She sold her string of her Japanese tea shops to a competitive franchise and suddenly came into money.”*

Come of age 
Reach legal age according to the law or to custom.
“When a young man comes of age, he can vote and drink
but he also becomes eligible to be drafted into military
service.” “When I come of age, I’m going to move out of
my parents’ home and get an apartment where I can do
and behave as I want.” “When a woman comes of age, it
is socially expected that she will marry and have a family.” *

Come off it! 
Don’t lie; don’t exaggerate! “Stop lying! Come off it!
Don’t try to fool me! I don’t believe that!” “You’ll have
to come up with a better lie if you expect anybody to believe you. Come off it!” “Come off it! No one will ever
believe that you are a direct descendent from the line of
King Henry the Eighth.” *

Come on strong 
Being very aggressive; threatening; overbearing. “I hate
it when people get aggressive and come on strong to
me.” “Back off! Don’t try to come on strong like that
with me or I’ll come down on you like a pile of bricks.”
“With some staff members, if you do not come on strong
and sound a bit threatening, they won’t pay any attention,
and they will ignore your orders.” *

Come on! 
Don’t lie; I don’t believe it; don’t exaggerate. “Come on!
You don’t expect me to believe that do you?” Come on!
I’ve heard that lie a million times. Can’t you think of
anything better than that?” “Come on! Stop exaggerating! Come down to earth and tell the truth.” *

Come out of one’s shell. 
Emerge from being shy and withdrawn. “When Patty was
still in school, she was very withdrawn, but after she got
her first boyfriend, she came out of her shell and began
acting more naturally.” “I am trying to get Sylvia to
come out of her shell and stop being so shy. I know there
is a lovely girl inside, and I am trying to draw her out.”
“It is sometimes difficult for a teacher to get a withdrawn
and introverted student to come out of his/her shell.” *

Come round 
Change you opinion and agree to the opposite view. “Be
patient and talk reasonably to your husband and maybe
he’ll avoid come around to your opinion.” “We are negotiating hard to get the other side to see the benefits of our
suggestion and finally to come round to agree to our requests.” “It’s going to be hard to get Dad to pay for an
expensive wedding. It will take a little convincing, but he
will come around in the end.”
Come through Eventually provide promised support; keep one’s word to
do something. “Father finally came through on his promise and gave me the money to pay my school tuition
fees.” “The President has come through on his promise
and lowered income tax by three percent.” “Maxine has
finally come through on her word and paid me the money
she borrowed from me.” *

Come to a head 
Just a s a pimple comes to a head, approaching the peak
of pressure and nearing the breaking point. “Pressure on
the Finance Minister is coming to a head, and it is rumored that he will be forced to resign any day now.”
“Tension between labor and management is coming to a
head, and the unions are threatening to go out on strike.”
The conflict between communist party factions is coming
to a head and threatening to break the unity of the left
wing of the coalition government apart.” *

Come to grips with 
Get a hold of and begin controlling the problem. “You’d
better come to grips with your self and begin resolving
your psychological conflicts.” “I just cannot accept and
come to grips with the fact that the company no longer
needs my services.” “It is difficult coming to grips with
the fact that mother has passed away and is no longer
there to help me, but, somehow, I’ll have to learn to get
along on my own without her.” *

Come to nothing 
Fail to come into realization; fail to materialize; prove to
be a vain effort. “All my work and dreams have come to
nothing. How could I have been so stupid as to hope and
strive to achieve the impossible?” “We had better give up
fighting for the cause. Everything we do to achieve success is done in vain and comes to nothing.” “We have
done everything we could to struggle for freedom, but,
now, we must accept that we have failed and that all our
efforts came to nothing.” *

Come to one’s senses 
Suddenly return to being reasonable and having common
sense. “Carina was crazy about that boy when she first
met him, but, now, that she has had time to observe his
personal behavior more closely, she has finally come to
her senses.” “It is time you grew up and cast aside your
silly romantic views and finally came to your senses.” “I
was a bit over-zealous in setting my goals so high, but,
now, I have finally come to my senses and learned to
think more realistically”*

Come to terms with 
Agree and accept a situation that can not be changed or 
altered. “At first, I could not accept the fact that I was not
accepted at the university of my choice, but, I have finally come to terms with it and have decided to register
at a private university.” “Maurice has finally come to
terms with the fact that he has no chance of recovering
the money he lost in Costa Rica.” “It took me a long time
to come to terms with the fact that the courts would not
accept my plaint that I had been defrauded of my home
and property.” *
Come to the point 
Don’t hesitate and ramble around; come to the main idea.
“Stop beating about the bush and come to the point.” “An
essay introduction should come to the point in the first
paragraph.” “Stop rambling around and come to the
point! Tell me exactly what is troubling you.”*

Come true 
Become fulfilled or realized as hoped-for or predicted. “I
always wanted to marry a millionaire, and now my
dream has come true!” “I never thought my dream of
winning the lottery would ever come true, but they
picked my number, and I won three-hundred thousand
Baht.” “If wishes could come true, I would wish to finally get rid of you.” *

Come up against 
Meet an obstacle or hindrance. “I have come up against
some resistance from my wife about buying you car, but
if I give her some time, she may come around to see my
point of view.” “We have come up against some legal
difficulties regarding Alien Business Law, but we will
look into the matter and get back to you.” “The Prime
Minister has met some resistance in Parliament to his
new national security plan, but he has enough political
clout to push the bill through.” *

Come up in the world 
Improve your financial and social status. “Last time I
saw you, you were riding a buffalo, but, now. I see you
driving a new BMW. You must have suddenly come up
in the world.” “Klaus was born to poor immigrant parents in the Bronx, but, now, he and his family have come
up in the world, and now they live in a Manhattan penthouse apartment with a panoramic view.” “At one time,
Dale was just an underprivileged kid in an orphanage,
but with a little luck and a lot of hard determination he
managed to come up in the world. Today, he is so rich
and successful he doesn’t know what to do with his
money.” *

Come across 
Give in to the will of another; change loyalty and move
over to join with the opposite side. “At first she was unwilling to give in to my will, but, eventually she finally
came-across and gave me what I wanted.” “If we want to
get our bill passed through Parliament, we will have to
give some corrupt member of the opposition an incentive 
to come-across and vote for it too.” “At first, we were
meeting a lot of resistance and opposition from the Senate Review Board, but after some deliberation, they finally came-across and agreed with our point of view.”*
Comes naturally Happens in accordance with the given nature of things.
“For some people, being kind and good just comes naturally.” “You can’t blame boys from being boys and doing
just what comes naturally.” “I don’t like to try and impress people; I would rather just be myself and do what
comes naturally.” *

Coming down in buckets 
Raining, pouring and falling down so hard that the water
seems to be coming down by the bucketful. “It is raining
so hard that it seems to be coming down by the bucketful.” “We had to cut short our picnic on account of rain
which suddenly started coming down by the bucketful
and we all got soaking wet.” “When we say it is raining
cats and dogs, this expression means about the same
thing as it is coming down by the bucketful.” *

Coming out of the woodwork
Just as termites in a burning house may be coming out of
the floor boards, posts and the woodwork, so we may
figuratively say that a lot of previously unknown victims
or witnesses are suddenly appearing who had previously
remained hidden and silent. “Once the Mafia bosses
started confess before the courts and tell all they knew, a
lot of other Mafia members suddenly started coming out
of the woodwork and singing like canaries.” “After the
Church admitted that there had been cases of young men
being homosexually harassed by their clergymen, a lot of
other men started coming out of the woodwork and telling how they had also been harassed by their clergyman
when they were only boys.” “Now that we’ve blown the
top off government corruption a lot of witnesses are coming out of the woodwork and telling how the same sort of
things have happened to them.” *

Coming to a head 
Leading up to a breaking point or climax. “Storm pressure over the Atlantic is coming to a head and gale
warnings have been announced in Newfoundland.” “Political pressures had been coming to ahead for some time
before the President was impeached by the Parliament.”
“The stress between Marion and I had been coming to a
head for months before we finally had a violent fight and
broke up for good.” *

Coming to the boilingpoint
Coming to a head; ready to break out into conflict. “You
had better be careful what you say next, because my
temper is coming to a boiling point, and I am liable to
knock your block off.” “Tempers are coming to a boiling
point in cross-border negotiations, and violence about to
flare out again if we can’t get the delegates to simmer 
down and work out a compromise.” “The conflict between the Irish Republicans and the English forces is
coming to a boiling point and both sides are preparing for
further outbreaks of violence.” *

Common decency 
Behaving in accordance with the accepted moral standards of society. “Please show at least the minimum of
common decency and courtesy when you are talking to
your elders.” “Common decency demands that a gentleman watch his language when he is in the company of
gracious ladies.” “The minimum of common decency
demands that you clothe your body with appropriate
modestly when you appear in public.” *

Common error 
A mistake that a lot of people make. “It is a common error to believe that there is nothing that the human mind is
incapable of knowing.” “It is a common error to assume
that all other people would act and react the same way as
you do.” “Mixing up the meaning of the ‘martial law’
and ‘marital law’ is a common word error.” *

Common ground 
Land owned and assessable to the public at large. “The
village common is a piece of open land that is owned and
used by all of the villagers in common.” “In our housing
area the clubhouse and the pool are build on common
ground belonging to the community at large.” “Streets
and parks belonging to the public are common ground
and are there for everybody’s use.” *

Common knowledge 
What everybody knows. “It is common knowledge that
the earth revolves around the sun.” “It is common
knowledge that what goes up must come down.” “It is
common knowledge that there are black holes in the universe.” “it is common knowledge that Knowles cheats on
his wife.” *

Common sense 
Normal reasoning. “Common sense tells you that, if you
take care of the body, the body will take care of you.”
“Anyone with even a little common sense will know that
one cannot fight the whole world and win.” “It makes
common sense to realize that if you are aggressive towards others, they will be aggressive towards you.” *
Complete and utter chaos Total disorder and confusion. “After the explosion in the
middle of the crowded Train Station, there was complete
and utter chaos, with people running around in panic in
every direction.” “When the government fell leaving a
power vacuum, complete and utter chaos reigned in the
streets.” “The good thing about being a child is that you
can run around madly and uncontrollably in complete
and utter chaos during school recess and everybody
thinks it is normal.” *

Complete imbecile 
An absolutely stupid individual without the ability to
think. “Pay no attention to Uncle Freddy. He’s a complete imbecile.” “Her baby was born a complete imbecile, because she was doing drugs when she was pregnant.” “How could you be so stupid? You must be a
complete imbecile to believe that pigs can fly.”*

Comply with regulations Follow the rules; obey the rules. “If you do not comply
with tax regulations, you will be subject to a penalty.” “I
am afraid we can make no exceptions to the rule. Everyone has to comply with regulations.” “In the Army, if
one does not comply with regulations, one will be severely reprimanded.” *

Compromise with 
Make concessions to the opposing-view to avoid trouble
or to encourage progress. “In a marriage each partner has
to be ready to give and take a little and to compromise
with the needs of the other.” “A good negotiator knows
when he has to make compromises with the opposing
side in order to make progress towards a final solution.”
“South East Asian people are more likely to seek a compromise in a disagreement with a neighbor than North
Western Europeans would likely be.” *

Compromise your principles
Give in and comply and perform an action against you
better moral judgment to do something that goes against
your beliefs. “If you gave in to pressure and did what the
committee wanted from you, you would be compromising your principles.” “Be careful not to do anything unethical or immoral and compromise your principles just
to seek financial advantage.” “One thing a young person
should keep in mind is the moment he begins to compromise his principles in order to get what he wants he is
taking his first step on the prickly path to Hell.” *

Con artist 
Someone who gains our trust and confidence just in order
to get our money.” “A confidence man cheats people out
of money by deceiving them into having confidence in
him to help them get what they want.” “Danny used to be
a con artist and earned his money that way, but after he
married Audrey, he decided to go straight and earn an
honest living.” “My younger brother became a con artist
and is always deceiving people by thinking up believable
get rich schemes.” *

Concede defeat 
Give in and admit that your opponent has beaten you.
“When the candidate realized that he was only getting
twenty-two percent of the vote, he realized he could not
win the election and conceded defeat, even before all the
ballots had bee counted.” “In a sports event, one of the
competitors sometimes concedes defeat when he is trailing so far behind his opponent that he cannot possibly
win.” Sometimes, in a business venture, when it becomes
clear you cannot gain a profitable market share, it is better to give up the effort and concede defeat before you 
lose any more money.”*

Concrete jungle 
A big city made of steel rods and beams and concrete.
“Sometimes, they say the city is a big concrete jungle
because of the way primitive street gangs roam about,
uncontrolled, threatening and doing harm to other people.” “I do not want to live in a concrete jungle full of
primitive people doing what ever it takes to survive and
stay alive; I want to live out in nature where everything is
open and free of stress where I can live in peace and harmony.” “City planners try to create common parks and
green areas, connected by walking and cycle paths so
that inhabitants can escape the feeling of being hemmedin and tightly enclosed within a concrete jungle.” *

Concur with someone on something
Agree with someone; be of the same opinion. “I concur
with your opinion that their investment plan is unacceptable because the location is too far away from prospective markets.” “I concur with the Chairman that we
should work out a compromise on this disagreement so
both sides feel satisfied and there is no resentment in the
end.” “My cardiologist concurs with the opinion of his
colleagues that nothing to be done to help me except to
wait and make me feel comfortable as I am approaching
the inevitable end.” *

Confide in someone 
Share a secret with someone you trust. “There are some
secrets that Connie shares only with my mother, and she
would not confide in anyone else.” “If I confide in you
and tell you a secret, do you promise not to tell anyone
else?” ”When a client confides in his lawyer and tells the
truth, the lawyer is bound by law not to breach client
confidence.” *

Confidence-building measure
Something done to help build-up more confidence in the
face of an unstable situation. “The government has guaranteed to fix prices and prop-up the currency rate, as a
confidence-building measure, to assure a stable economy
and encourage new investments.” “As a confidence
building measure, the North Koreans have agreed to allow UN nuclear inspections to insure the rest of the
world that their programs do not pose a threat to peace.”
“In the face of threatened economic security, as a confidence building measure, The Bank of Thailand has declared an increase in savings interest rates to loosen up
some cash in order to encourage spending.”*

Confront the problem 
Face the problem; be ready to stand up to a challenge and
do something about it. “If you do not confront the problem of your excessive drinking, it will eventually destroy
your health and your career.” “If the City Administration
does no confront the problem of the accumulating garbage, the whole city will soon begin to stink.” “If nothing 
is done to confront the problem of corruption, here in our
country, our potential economic trading partners will be
unable to trust that we have a fully transparent financial
system.” *

Confusing the issue 
Introducing something irrelevant into the discussion that
leads off topic. “Don’t bring the neighbor’s dog into the
discussion. That has nothing to do with the point. Just tell
me why the petty cash box is short by twenty dollars.”
“Don’t confuse the issue by complaining you have a
headache. Stick to the topic and explain the reason why
you are three hours late.” “Speaking about our possible
future cooperation is just confusing the issue. We will
have no future relationship at all unless you can explain
what your structural engineers are doing to solve the
problem.”*

Conjure-up an idea 
Use one’s imaginative powers to think up or put an image or idea or picture in people’s minds; come up with
and produce a solution as if by magic. “The magician
conjured up the image of a beautiful woman that went
rapidly through the stages of aging until it was nothing
but a shriveled-up old hag.” “Where did you conjure up
an absurd explanation like that? That is false conjecture
if I ever saw one!” “Someone in the company had better
conjure up an idea fast about how the firm can somehow
solve its cash flow problems.” *

Conked-out 
Knocked or made unconscious. “After Rocky hit the
Kansas Kid with an uppercut to the jaw, the Kid fell to
his knees, looked about in a daze for a second and then
conked-out flat on his back on the mat.” “Dad drank a
bottle of Red Label all by himself, and, now, he’s
conked-out the living-room sofa.” “Big Olov sat and
drank straight shots of vodka all through the night until it
was dawn outside, until he, finally, conked-out like a
light.” *

Conscientious objector 
One who refuses to fight and kill based on moral
grounds. “My Dad would not fight in the Viet Nam war
because he was a conscious objector, so he had to serve
as a volunteer hospital-attendant instead.” “According to
the law, conscious objectors may be excused from military service if they agree to perform some other form of
social service instead.” “During the Viet Nam war, many
American conscientious objectors fled to Canada to
avoid the draft.” *

Conscript into the army 
Draft or compel someone into military service. “In some
countries, when you come of age, you are automatically
eligible for conscription into the army.”
 “In most civilized countries automatic conscription into
the army is no longer required and the military forces 
depend on volunteers.” “In America, there is no forced
conscription into the army any more. The USA depends
on a core of career soldiers backed-up by the national
guard.” *

Considered opinion 
To form an opinion after thinking about all factors from
all sides. “It is my considered opinion that socialism is a
good idea, but it doesn’t work in the long run because
people are by nature basically selfish.” “The doctor told
me it was his considered opinion that I could yet live
many years if only I learned to balance the needs of my
body and the mind.” “If you want my considered opinion, based on a lifetime of observation, there is no such
thing as a good politician.” *

Consort with 
Associate with; to be a companion to or hang around
with people who may exert a negative influence. “Be
careful not to consort with wicked people or other people
will begin to believe that you are wicked too.” “After
graduating from Cambridge, he and spent a year in London consorting with his old school cronies and living a
loose and immoral life.” “Be careful of the people you
consort with because their bad habits will rub off and begin to affect your own behavior.” *

Conspicuous consumption
Buying and using expensive symbols of success so others
can see and become envious or jealous of one’s image.
“A lot of people with big money and small egos turn to
conspicuous consumption as a way of impressing others.” “Spending a lot of money just to show-off may be
considered as one form of conspicuous consumption.”
“Buying expensive BMW and Mercedes cars and Rolex
watches may be seen as conspicuous consumption, especially when the people who purchase them feel a need to
impress others.” *

Conspire against 
Scheme, plot, connive or work against someone, with the
help of another or others. “The Prime Minister’s enemies
have been conspiring together how to get him out of
power.” “Many of Hitler’s own officers conspired
against him and tried to have him assassinated before he
could do any more damage.” “When two or more persons
put their heads together and plot secretly to harm another, they may be said to be conspiring against their intended victim.” *

Consumed by desire 
Burning up due to personal craving; consumed with passion. “I was so consumed by desire for that woman that I
totally lost control of common decency and common
sense.” “Oh, Baby! When I see you, I’m so consumed
with desire! You set my heart on fire.” “Most people are
so consumed by desire that they do things that bring
harm, just because they can not control themselves.” * 

Contemptible behavior 
Despicable, appalling, shameful, dreadful way of acting.
“Stealing candy from a baby is contemptible behavior.”
“When you are drunk, you are capable of committing the
most contemptible behavior.” “Everybody looks down on
you because your adulterous conduct towards your wife
is shameful and contemptible behavior.” *

Contradiction in terms 
An expression containing words that seem to mean the
opposite of one another. “Some like to joke that military
intelligence is a contradiction in terms.” “Some think that
conventional wisdom is a contradiction in terms.” “Is it a
contradiction in terms to ask for merciful justice.” *

Contrary to expectations 
The opposite of what is expected. “Contrary to my expectations, I got an ‘A’ on my essay.” “Contrary to expectations, the conservatives won the election by a margin of three percent. Who would have anticipated that?”
“Contrary to all expectations, Dad has continued to survive despite deteriorating symptoms of left heart failure.”*

Contrary to popular opinion
In spite of what most people believe. “Contrary to popular opinion, cucumbers have almost no nutritional value.”
“Contrary to popular opinion, indulgence in pleasurable
desires does not lead to happiness.” “Contrary to popular
opinion, a solitary, secluded hermit’s life leads to greater
happiness than an active social life.” *

Control freak 
Someone who is obsessed with having absolute control
of everything. “My ex-boyfriend was a control freak. He
wanted to totally control my life and everything in it.” “I
used to be an excessive, compulsive control freak, but,
now, I have learned to let everything go.” “My motherin-law is a control freak, and I hate going to her house
because she tries to exercise command in everything my
wife and I think and do.” *

Converge in upon 
Come in from all sides to surround an opponent. “After a
thirty minute car chase, police cruisers converged in
upon the driver of the stolen vehicle, from every side, at
the intersection of King and James Streets.” “The cowboys placed their wagons in a tight circle and waited for
the Indians to converge in on them and attack.” “The
Premier is surrounded by political opponents who are
converging in on him from all sides.” *

Convey condolences 
Express pity, understanding, sympathy or commiseration.
“Please allow me to convey my condolences upon the
death of your mother.” “I am sending you this card to
convey my sincere condolences upon the death of your
beloved child.” “Heads of State from all around the
world sent condolences to Buckingham Palace to convey
their condolences following the sad and unexpected
death of Princess Diana.”* 

Cook up an excuse 
Fabricate a false, imaginary, made-up reason why one
failed to do something. “We’ll have to cook up an excuse
to tell the boss about why we missed Monday morning’s
meeting.” “Don’t try to cook up an excuse for your absence from school. I know you were just playing hooky.”
“This client is very good at cooking up excuses for why
he cannot pay our invoices on time.” *

Cooking the books 
Keeping a false set of accounting records to deceive investors and tax regulators while draining off hidden profits. “Enron accountants were cooking the books and making false financial statements about supposed-profits to
fool and deceive investors.” “My friend’s wife has a
travel office and she has become an expert at hiding profits and cooking the books to avoid paying taxes.” “An
auditor’s job is to check the financial statement of a
company to be sure that no one is cooking the books and
that all transactions are properly recorded and transparent
in accordance with generally accepted audit standards.” *

Cool as a cucumber 
Calm, cool and collected, showing no signs of fear or
anxiety. “When Dave was a yachting skipper, he used to
remain as cool as a cucumber when he found himself in
the face of risk and danger.” “Despite the fact that the
general manager was obviously in the wrong and being
chastised for the financial disaster, he remained as cool
as a cucumber throughout the proceedings of the Annual
Meeting.” “After robbing the bank, the suspect walked
calmly out the door and, as cool as a cucumber, took off
his mask, stuffed it in his jacket pocket and got into a
number four bus.” *

Cool down 
Don’t be so angry. “Calm yourself; get control of your
self. Cool down.” “Don’t let a little thing like that get
you all angry and worked-up. Cool down!” “I can understand why you are angry, but I would advise you to cool
down before you say something you’ll be sorry for.” *

Cool off 
Don’t be so angry and hot-tempered. “Control your emotions. Calm down. Cool off!” “Don’t get so worked-up!
Don’t let things bother you. Cool off for a while” “Don’t
let things get to you so easily. Take a minute to cool off
and don’t react impulsively.”*

Cool reception 
The opposite to a warm welcome when the host is not
pleased to see you. “I got a cool reception from my girlfriend’s family because I was not born into the same noble class the way they were” “When the Japanese delegates arrived in China, they got a cool reception because
the Chinese people had not forgotten the Japanese atrocities of the second world war.” “After the insensitive way
I had treated her after father’s death, I got a cold reception when I visited to my mother’s home.” * 

Cooling-off period 
Time to calm down and cool off after being excited or
angry. “When you are angry and really upset, it’s better
to allow yourself a cooling-off period before taking any
action.” “The President will have to wait through a cooling-off period before he tries to reintroduce the highly
sensitive federal health care plan again.” “Before I try to
talk to my wife again, I’d better give her a cooling off
period.” *

Cooped-up 
Just as chickens are cooped-up in a cage, so a person
may say he feels ‘cooped-up’ when he is restricted to a
limited space. “I hate being cooped-up in an office all
day and would rather be out on the road visiting clients.”
“My children do not like being cooped-up in the house
when they could be running free in the fields.” “Grandmother says she sometimes gets bored with being
cooped-up alone at home all day, and, sometimes, she
even threatens to pack her bags and run away.”*

Coping with the situation 
Doing one’s best to control the situation. “Both my business and my marriage are falling apart and I am having a
hard time coping with the situation.” “We have not got
the refugee food problem under control yet, but we are
coping with the situation.” “The government realizes that
an economic recession is impending and trying to do all
it can to cope with the situation.” *

Cop-out 
Back out of a promise; let your friends down; be afraid to
take the risk. “Don’t cop-out now in the moment when
we need you the most!” “My brother is a real cop-out. He
has never finished anything he has started in his life.”
“I’m sorry I copped-out at the last minute and was not
there to fulfill my promise to be your best man at the
wedding.” *

Copy-cat 
Just as one who tries to copy from a fellow-student’s
exam paper is called a ‘copy-cat,’ so we may also say
someone copy-cats the actions of another. “A singer who
copies the actions, characteristics and manners of another
is said to be a copy-cat.” “Stop aping my actions! If there
is anything I hate, it is a copy-cat!” “The new sequence
of serial killings was committed by a copy-cat of the
Boston Strangler.” *

Cordon off 
To surround, protect, separate-off or blockade a threatened area through police or military intervention. “US
forces have cordoned off the area around the American
Embassy to protect it from terrorist attack.” “Before the
princess arrives in the area, for safety’s sake, the courtyard will be cordoned off by security forces.” “The main
Square of the city was cordoned off by the National
Guard as a security measure to protect the visiting world
leaders.”* 

Core of the matter 
The root cause of the problem; what lies at the center of
the issue. “Its hard to explain why the financial crisis hit
so suddenly, but the core of the matter was that the Baht
was overvalued on world currency markets.” “It’s difficult to understand the root of racial prejudice, but some
psychiatrists say that the core of the matter is that people
who feel inferior need someone to hate even more than
they hate themselves.” “Many factors contributed to the
collapse of the economy, but the core of the matter was
that everyone was speculating and borrowing based on
the expectation of a continuing eight percent annual
growth curve.” *

Corner the market 
Gain control of the sales market so everyone has to buy
from you. “When you have bought up all your big competitors and crushed all the small ones, then, you may be
said to have cornered the market.” “The way to corner
the market in Thailand is to amalgamate with your competitors and thereby gain a monopoly.” “Another way to
corner the market is to come up with new copyrightedtechnology that eliminates the possibility of competition.” *

Corridors of power 
The long halls in government buildings where the offices
of highly-placed officials and their advisors are situated.
“As long as there are right-wing, hawkish republicans
sitting in the corridors of power, there will always be foreign wars.” “As long as there are such corrupt politicians
sitting in the corridors of power foreign nations will suspect the integrity of our nation’s governmental bodies.”
“Senator Edward Kennedy and his Democratic campaign
supporters have long been accustomed to holding influence in the corridors of power.” *

Cost an arm and a leg 
A very expensive price to have to pay to get what you
want. “A suite at the Beverly Hilton will cost you an arm
and a leg.” “Three days in Monte Carlo can cost you an
arm and a leg, even if you don’t go near the Casino.”
“Don’t go to a fancy lawyer to ask for legal advice because it will cost you an arm and a leg.” *

Cost effective 
Economizing to keep costs under control. “Introducing
new technology into the assembly line is cost effective
but it also costs a lot of people their jobs.” “The company
is implementing cost effectiveness measures and trimming costs wherever it can.” “Management is offering a
big cash prize to the person who can make the best suggestion for cost effectiveness.” *

Cost the earth! 
Very expensive! Cost an arm and a leg! “I bought my
fiancée the diamond engagement ring she wanted, but it
cost me the earth!” “A house with a sea view on the California coastline will cost you the earth!” “The doctors 
cured poor old Dad of his prostrate cancer, but it cost the
earth!” *

Cost you dearly 
Having to pay a high price for what you have done
wrong or to get what you want. “I learned from the mistakes I made in my first business venture, but it cost me
dearly.” “I fooled around on my wife but it cost me
dearly when she divorced me.” “I have always stayed
loyal to the Prime Minister despite his mistakes but it has
cost me over the years even within my own party.” *

Couch potato 
A child that sits on the couch watching TV and nibbling
snacks and never gets any exercise. “My little brother is a
couch potato. He sits and watches TV and munches on
snacks all day.” “These days, we picture American kids
as couch potatoes, but that is a stereotype, because there
are lots of kids that are active and not fat and not addicted to TV.” “Until I was twelve, I was a couch potato,
then, I got involved in sports at school and used to practice in the afternoons after school and, from that time on,
I watched less TV than most people.” *

Couldn’t be bothered 
Not thoughtful enough to help out or couldn’t care less.
“I didn’t care what she thought about me. I couldn’t be
bothered.” “My Dad never cares about what others say
about him. He couldn’t be bothered.” “I asked my friends
to help me clean up the mess after the party, but they
couldn’t be bothered.” “Everyone knows we must take
care to protect the environment, but most people couldn’t
be bothered.” *

Couldn’t care less 
Don’t give a damn; indifferent; not interested; not bothered, worried, not concerned. “I couldn’t care less if you
told the whole world your low opinion of me.” “Call me
all the nasty names that you want. I’m not bothered. I
couldn’t care less.” “Go ahead and kill yourself if that is
what you really want to do. I couldn’t care less.”*

Count against you 
Something you do that goes on record as a bad mark
which will follow you all throughout your life. “If you
are ever arrested on a drug offense, it will count against
you for the rest of your life.” “Any criminal felony you
commit after the age of eighteen remains on your record
and counts against you.” “Anything that you do to offend
my resentful wife will count against you for the rest of
your life.” *

Count me out 
Don’t depend on me. “I am not going to participate; I
refuse to do what you ask. You can count me out.” “I
will never help you and your pals to betray one of our
very best friends. You can count me out.” “I will not indulge in any illegal activities no matter how hard you try
to convince me. When it comes to dishonest actions, you
can count me out.”* 

Count on someone 
Rely and depend upon a person. “There is no one other
than you that I can trust: you’re the only one I can count
on.” “My Mom is counting on me to finish university and
get a good job to help support the family.” “We are
counting on you to attend the board meeting so we will
have enough members to constitute a quorum to open the
meeting.” *

Count your blessings 
Think of all the good things and talents that have been
given to you. “Stop feeling so sorry for yourself and
count your blessings instead.” “In place of yearning for
things we can not get, we should be learning to count our
blessings instead.” “Sometimes, when I am down and
feeling blue, I count my blessings to brighten my point of
view.” *

Count your chickens before they are hatched
Imagine a profitable or happy outcome before you have
invested time and effort and waited for the result. “Don’t
count on getting accepted to medical school so you can
study to become a doctor before going on to become a
specialist. Don’t count your chickens before they are
hatched.” “I wouldn’t go buying a house and car before
your business starts to generate the hoped-for profits.
You shouldn’t count your chickens before they are
hatched.” “You may have been selected to be shortlisted, but that doesn’t mean you will get the job. Don’t
count your chickens before they are hatched.” *

Courage of my own convictions
Confidence that makes one act based on the faith that
what one is doing is right. “It was the courage of my own
convictions that motivated me to study philosophy rather
than law or medicine as my family might have wished.”
“In blowing the whistle to inform about the company doing creative auditing and cooking the books, I was acting
with the courage of my own convictions.” “I cannot do
what you request because it goes against my morals. I
regret to inform you that I must follow the courage of my
own convictions and do what I believe in.” *

Course of nature 
In the process of things happening in nature. “It is to be
expected that in the course of nature, things will be born,
get old and die.” “In the course of nature, over many millennia, innumerable species have arisen and died away
due to changes in climatic and environmental conditions.” “It is a known fact that in the course of nature all
carbon-based elements are slowly deteriorating.” *

Courting disaster 
Asking for trouble; making yourself vulnerable; taking a
chance that can lead to a bad end; putting yourself in a
dangerous situation; seeking something that could destroy you. “You’re courting disaster when you start experimenting with mind-altering drugs.” “Proposing marriage to a self-seeking, mad woman like Olga is courting 
disaster.” “Nowadays, in the age of AIDS, having sex
without using a condom is courting disaster.” *

Cover for someone 
Just a one soldier covers for another, protecting him
while running across the firing line, so we may ask a
friend to watch out for us or take our place or do our job
temporarily while we do something else. “I have to go to
the rest room for a few minutes. Can you cover for me?”
“I am covering the phone for my boss while he is out of
the office.” “Can you cover for me at my desk while I am
gone?” “I have to duck out of the office for about thirty
minutes. Could you cover for me when I am gone?” *

Cover your ass with paper
Protect and cover yourself by having the proper documentation. “One thing you learn from doing government
work is to always have to cover you ass with paper.” “Be
sure you get all the correct documents together so you
can cover your ass with paper in case of any questioning.” “In the military, you should try always to get a written copy of authorization for any official order you carry
out just to cover your ass with paper.” *

Cover your tracks 
Destroy the evidence that shows what you have done.
“When it is snowing very heavily, you cannot follow an
Eskimo to see where he went because newly fallen snow
will have covered his tracks.” “There is a new kind of
software now that allows people who visit sex websites
on their office computers to cover their tracks.” “When
the Revenue Department is coming to check your books,
you’d better be careful to get rid of the evidence of any
illegal transactions you may have made to be sure you
have covered your tracks.” *

Cover-to-cover 
From the front to the back of a book. “Abdul has read
and studied the Koran from cover-to-cover.” “I know the
contents of my Geography textbook, inside out and
backwards from cover-to-cover.” “The Reverend Mahoney knows the contents if the Bible from cover-tocover.”*
Cover-up Removal of evidence and denial of guilt. “It is believed
by some that the official investigation report on the Kennedy assassination was a cover-up to hide the fact that
the FBI had bungled the investigation.” “The President’s
denial of any knowledge about the tapes was just a
cover-up intended to conceal the real facts.” “When corrupt politicians are exposed, they either bribe or kill all
the witnesses to cover up the facts.” *

Crack down on 
Bring the pressure of government authority down on
wrong-doers. “Police in Pattaya are cracking down on
bar owners who stay open past official closing times.”
“The Narcotics Bureau is cracking down on known drug
dealers and trying to put them all in jail” “The govern-
ment has started to crack down on people who try to
avoid paying their taxes.” *

Crack of dawn 
The earliest part of the morning when the first light begins to show over the horizon. “I get up every morning at
the crack of dawn and jog for three kilometers around the
village before it is fully light.” “Mother is always up and
working before the crack of dawn and continues doing
her household duties until after the sun goes down.”
“When I was in the army, I had to get up at the crack of
dawn, but now I am a civilian I like to lay in bed all
morning and sleep long.” *

Crack of doom 
At the moment when the world ends. “One day after we
have neglected our environment to the point of no return,
the crack of doom will inevitably come.” “God is angry
with the sinners of the world and wants to punish them
by bringing on the crack of doom so the world will come
to a fiery end.” “You can keep on talking until the crack
of doom, but you will never convince me.” *

Crackpot idea 
Crazy notion. “I don’t know where I got the crackpot
idea, but I used to think that one could eat as much rice
as one wanted without gaining weight.” “By brother fancies himself as an inventor, and he keeps coming up with
crackpot ideas like sun hats that can be blown-up into
umbrellas.” “Where did you ever get the crackpot idea
that if you keep your old Mercedes-Benz for long
enough, until it will become a classic car and increase in
value?” *

Crack-up 
Mental breakdown. When I was about thirty-three, I had
a mental crack-up and had to go into two years of intensive psychotherapy.” “My Aunt Audrey had a mental
crack-up after her husband-to-be didn’t show up for the
wedding.” “Often, when men are about forty-three they
go through a mid-life crisis and have a mental crack-up.”
“When I was young and living hard and fast and drinking
very heavily, I had a psychological crackup at the age of
thirty-three.” *

Crafty devil 
A clever and devious person who tries to get the better of
you. “Be careful of that fellow Faustus; he is a crafty
devil who try trick you in every way he can.” “Oh, I can
see the sly trick you are trying to pull on me. You are a
crafty devil, but such a trick won’t work on me.” “I know
you are a crafty devil and very deceitful so I am not going to believe a single word that you say.” *

Cram into 
Just as, on the one hand, we can cram in contents to totally fill a jar or can, so, on the other, we can also say we
cram a lot of information into our heads for an examination. “The people were crammed into the subway car like
sardines in a can.” “The night before an exam, I study 
hard and long and try to cram a lot of information onto
my head at the last minute.” “Trying to cram for an exam
is a very nerve wracking experience that could be
avoided with proper planning and time management.”*

Cram-packed 
Packed as full as possible with no room for anything
more. “The auditorium was cram packed with teenagers
waiting to see their favorite boy band.” “The subway car
was so cram-packed that you couldn’t have jammed in
another person in, not even sidewise.” “When we
reached the concert hall it was already cram-packed full,
and it was a good thing we had reserved seats or we
wouldn’t even have found standing room.”*

Crash-land 
Just as a plane may have engine trouble and have to crash
land, so we may say that a venture or business scheme
must crash- land before it is too late to save it from disaster. “Don’t get over-excited about your business plan because if it doesn’t take off in the way that you want, you
will be forced to crash-land.” “Our most recent product
launching went over like a lead balloon, so we had to
crash land and pull the product from the market.” “I
started off my life living high on the hog and flying too
high, but when all my money ran out, I was forced to
crash-land.” *

Crawl into your shell 
Withdraw within yourself and become introverted and
incommunicative. “Whenever a man gets close to my
sister she crawls into her shell and remains withdrawn
until he goes away.” “Why is it that every time I start
talking about our personal relationship, you crawl into
your shell?” “My analyst says that whenever he starts
getting too close to the truth, I crawl into my shell and
close up.” *

Creature comforts 
The essential things needed for one to have a comfortable
life. “Creature comforts means more than just having the
bare essentials of life; it means needing things like television sets, sofas, pillows, refrigerators, microwaves and
the like to make life easy.” ”Candice is not the kind of
girl who would ever marry a man who could not offer her
all of the creature comforts.” “I am afraid I am a creature
of habit that could never get along without essential creature comforts.” *

Creature of habit 
A person who needs to follow the same routine all of the
time. “I am such a creature of habit that you can set your
watch according to the things I do throughout the day.”
“Clive is a creature of habit. He always reacts to the
same sets of circumstances in the same ways, and he will
continue to stay that way until the end of his life.” “I’m
sorry that I am not able to adapt to fit into your style of
living, but I have been a creature of habit for so long that 
it is hard for me to change my ways.” *

Credible excuse 
Believable, convincing, plausible reason or explanation.
“I am afraid that if you cannot come up with a credible
excuse for your continued absence from school, you will
be automatically expelled.” “The only credible excuse
for missing an examination is an extreme family emergency or illness and hospitalization.” “You had better
have a creditable excuse for not turning up for the meeting with the client; otherwise, you will be sacked.” *

Creeping at a snail’s pace 
Just as a snail moves very slowly, so we can say something is progressing at a snail’s pace. “Progress on the
construction of the new airport was creeping along at a
snail’s pace amidst accusations of corruption.” “Work on
the new bridge has been creeping along at a snail’s pace
because the international funding has not been coming
through as promised.” “UN development of human rights
is creeping along at a snail’s pace, especially in thirdworld nations where there are great gaps between the rich
and the poor.” *
Creepy 
Eerie; scary; hair-raising; as though a spider or some insect were creeping across your skin. “I think that fellow’s
appearance is creepy. He reminds me of Dracula.” When
I go down alone into the deep hollow of an underground
cave and the air begins to feel dank, I get a creepy feeling.” “When I see a spider, I’m afraid and get a case of
the creepy crawlies, so my hair is standing on end.”*

Cringe at the thought of 
Shrink figuratively into a crouching position due to fear
of something happening. “I cannot stand the sight of that
man. I cringe at the thought of him ever touching me.” “I
hate to think what will happen if there were an earthquake in Bangkok causing a lot of high rise buildings to
fall down and collapse. I cringe at the thought.” “I cringe
at the thought of the hospital doing an autopsy on my
helpless, dead body once I die.” *

Crop up 
Suddenly arise. “A problem has cropped up in my personal life, and I shall have to be away from the office for
a few days.” “I’m sorry I can’t stay to the end of the
meeting. Something important has cropped up, and I
have to attend to it immediately.” “A problem has
cropped up in the programming process, and we have to
work out the technological glitch before we can continue.” *

Cross my heart and hope to die.
A Christian expression swearing that if you tell a lie
while making the sign of the cross over your heart you
hope to suffer the penalty of death. “I swear did not steal
your laptop, cross my heart and hope to die.” “It was not
me who took your diamond ear rings, cross my heart and
hope to die.” “I am willing to take an oath and promise to 
never love any other woman but you, cross my heart and
hope to die.” *

Cross my path 
Get in someone’s way; hinder, obstruct or go against
somebody’s will or intent. “If you ever cross my path and
try to obstruct my will again, I shall box your ears.” “If
you ever cross my path again, I’ll catch you and cut you
to into ribbons.” “I’ll overlook the offence this time, but
if you ever cross my path again, I’ll get back at you in a
way you will never forget.” *

Cross that bridge when we come to it
Put off doing something we do not have to worry about
yet; postpone the decision until the last minute and act
appropriately when the time comes; do not worry about
something until it becomes a problem. “Don’t worry
about where we will get the money to finance your education. We’ll cross that bridge when we come to it.” “I
haven’t decided what to do if they don’t renew my contract, but I’ll cross that bridge when I come to it.” “Jane
feels there’s no sense worrying about what she will do if
she cannot pass the CPA exams. That’s a bridge she will
have to cross when she comes to it.” *

Cross the floor 
In politics, changing parties and going across the floor of
the parliament to join the opposite side. “In England, it
very seldom happens that a Conservative politician will
cross the floor and join forces with the Labour Party.”
“Once in the German Parliament, the government didn’t
have enough votes to pass a bill, so the Prime Minister
coerced a member of the opposition to cross the floor and
vote with them.” “Some people think it is a traitorous act
to cross the floor and join the opposition, but others
would say it would be justified if it were based on a matter of political conscience.” *

Cross the line 
Go too far; exceed the limits of what is considered proper
behavior. “You crossed the line and exceeded the limits
of friendship when you touched my little sister.” “Don’t
go too far in testing the limits of my patience. If you
cross the line, I’ll be very cross with you.” “I know you
like to be obnoxious, but when you publicly insulted the
Prince of Whales, you crossed the line of what is considered to be polite common-decency.” *

Cross with someone 
Angry and annoyed with some person for something he
has done. “My mother is very cross with me for spilling a
bottle of black ink and making a big stain on the dining
room rug.” “Oh, Darling, I’m sorry I forgot your birthday. Please don’t be cross with me.” “My teacher is always cross with me when she sees that I haven’t been
doing my homework.” *

Cross your fingers 
Crossing your fingers is a hand gesture which shows you
are hoping for luck. “I just bought a lottery ticket. Keep 
your fingers crossed for me and maybe I can win.” “I’m
going to keep my fingers crossed and hope that I passed
the examination.” “My mother said she would keep her
fingers crossed for me and hope that I got accepted to
graduate school.” *

Crossed my mind 
Something suddenly coming into my mind or occurring
to me that I had neglected to think about;. “It has just
crossed my mind that I have forgotten to check the expiry date in my passport.” “It just crossed my mind that
my electricity will be cut off if I don’t pay the bill before
the deadline.” “It has just suddenly crossed my mind that
my family would not be properly provided for If I suddenly died.” *

Crowning achievement 
The highest peak of attainment. “The crowning achievement of an actor’s life is being asked to give a command
performance before the Queen.” “The crowning achievement of a footballer’s life is to kick the winning goal in a
World Cup match.” “Many think that the crowning
achievement in a writer’s life would be to win the Nobel
Prize for Literature.” *

Crow’s feet 
Little lines or wrinkles at the corners of your eyes.
“When the crow’s feet at the corners of your eyes turn up
instead of down, this is a sign that you smile more than
you frown.” “Alice is only twenty-five, but she must
have a lot of worries, because she’s already getting
crow’s feet at the corners of her eyes.” “My mother had
an absolutely clear complexion up until she died at sixtyeight and she didn’t have a wrinkle in her face, not even
the slightest sign of crow’s feet in the corners of her
eyes.” *

Cruel to be kind 
Telling someone a blunt truth in order to help him/her
improve his/her behavior. “When Hamlet tells his mother
she should not be drinking and sleeping with his uncle,
he says he is being ‘cruel to be kind.” “Sometimes, when
you admonish a friend to help him improve himself, you
can say you are being cruel to be kind.” “A teacher, who
gives an ‘F’ to a late term paper, may rationalize that he
is being cruel to be kind.” *

Cry wolf 
Call out for help when there is no danger, just to get attention. “If one cries, ‘Wolf!’ too often, people will not
pay any attention when a true situation of danger arises.”
“Darling, I am afraid you have cried, ‘Wolf’ once too
often and this time no one will come to your aid.” “Just
like the little girl who cried, “Wolf!” once too often, so a
person who cries for help too often just to get attention
will not receive any help when a truly serious or dangerous situation arises.”*

Cry your eyes out 
Cry as if you will never stop. “When brother John went 
off to the war, mother cried her eyes out all afternoon
and kept sobbing as if she would never stop.” “When I
could not go to my big sister’s birthday party, I sat home
and cried my eyes out.” I cried my eyes out for a whole
year, when my first husband left me for another younger
woman.” *
Crying shame 
A pity; deplorable; lamentable; appalling; unacceptable;
a shameful thing. “It’s a crying shame the way some parents abuse and neglect their children.” “It’s a crying
shame the way some people eat themselves into obesity,
while many people in the third world are still starving
and dying of hunger.” “It’s a crying shame that the rich
lawmakers can send the children of the poor into a war in
order to protect their own inherited wealth and resources.” *

Crystal clear 
Just as crystal glass is clear, so an idea can be clear. “A
good teacher should be able to explain concepts in a way
that is crystal clear.” “It is now crystal clear to me that
you married me only for my money.” “When I look back
over my mistakes, it is now crystal clear where and why
and how I went wrong.” *

Cuckoo 
A bit crazy; not right in the head. “What’s wrong with
you? Are you cuckoo?” “You’re behaving like a person
who’s not right in the head? You must be cuckoo.” “I
think that Mr. Chan must be a little bit cuckoo. He lives
in a world of his own and can do nothing whatsoever to
help himself.”*

Cuddle up to someone 
Let someone feel you want to move in close and hug that
person. “Come over here, Dear. Sit on my lap and cuddle
up to me. I’m feeling a bit lost and lonely tonight.” “Tom
misses having a little girlfriend to cuddle up to him at
night to make him feel warm and comforted.” “There’s
nothing more cosy and comfortable on a winter night, in
the Rocky Mountains than to cuddle up to the one you
love on a bear skin rug in front of a big logwood fire.” *

Cudgel someone’s brains out
Beat someone’s brains with a club or blunt object so they
are running out of his skull. “I could cudgel your brains
out for the nasty comment you made about my intelligence.” “If you don’t come up with the five dollars you
owe me as promised, I’ll cudgel your brains out.” “I am
so angry with my husband for forgetting our wedding
anniversary that I could cudgel his brains out.”*

Cuff someone over the ear
Hit or box someone over the ear. “My Dad said that if I
didn’t start my chores right away, he would give me a
cuff over the ear.” “If you continue to show lack of respect and say one more defiant word, I’ll cuff you over
the ear.” “When I was in high school. I had a science
teacher, called Mr. McDermott, who would sneak up behind students who were talking in the lab and cuff them
over the ear.” *

Cull the herd 
Pick out and set aside or kill inferior animals. “When we
got mad cow disease in Britain, government officials
came to our farm and did some testing to cull the herd of
all animals suspected of being infected.” “Forest rangers
sometimes come into the National Park and cull the herd
of older and weaker animals to help maintain a natural
balance between the resources of nature and the number
of animals.” “Breeders of American Prairie Buffalo
sometimes cull the herd to eliminate the possibility of
inferior animals mating and thereby weakening the
bloodline.” *

Cultural conflict 
Differing ideas based of different cultural ideas and values. “When an Englishman comes to Thailand, he often
finds himself facing a cultural conflict in which he must
choose between Asian values and ways of doing things
or following those of his own culture.” “When Asians go
to America, they are confronted with cultural conflict
when they are expected to stand up and aggressively defend themselves.” “American men always let ladies go
first, but Thai ladies insist the gentlemen go first, so confusing cultural conflicts sometimes arise about who
stands up and who moves first.” *

Cultural desert 
An undeveloped out-of-the-way place with literally no
art, music, theatre, libraries, etc. “When I was a boy,
growing up in Canada, in the 1940s, the place was still
just a cultural desert.” “It was not as well-developed as it
is today. Compared to London, Paris or Rome, Winnipeg
was a cultural desert.” “In the 1950s McMaster University was almost a cultural desert, but nowadays it is an
important center of cultural activity.” *

Culture shock 
An abrupt change in cultural location and traditions, with
no time for acclimatization, has a distressing mental effect on some people. “When I fist went from Canada to
live in Germany, I found the people so cold and stiff and
aggressive that I suffered from culture shock.” “If you
take a normal American college kid and set him down in
the middle of a Calcutta slum, he will suffer from culture
shock.” “Many Thai students when they first go to study
in America at first suffer from culture shock because
Americans are loud, assertive and showy as opposed to
being quiet, mild-mannered and modest.” *

Culture vulture 
Someone who is not quite cultured but has a ravenous
appetite to know and speak about anything cultural, such
as in art, music, archeology, etc. “I hate going to gallery
openings full of culture vultures hanging around the
walls looking artistic and talking as if they were experts 
on something they know nothing about.” “When I was
first in Europe, I was an unsophisticated culture vulture,
but, after spending thirty years there, I became acclimated and sophisticated.” “When some western culture
vultures first come to Greece to learn about Classical
Civilization, they seem as though they could never get
enough of it, and spend weeks going around from ruin to
ruin fulfilling a hunger to get back to their roots.” *

Curdle your blood Just as milk curdles into lumps after it goes sour, so a
terrifying experience may be compared one’s blood to
curdling at a horrifying shock or sight. “There is a terrible scene in the movie, ‘Psycho’ of a butcher knife murder in the shower that will be sure to curdle your blood.”
“Nowadays, if you go to a House of Horrors in a carnival
show, you will see what seem to be real life spectacles
that are sure to curdle your blood.” “Some of Edgar Allen Poe’s short stories are so horrifying and grotesque
that they will curdle your blood.” *

Curse the day you were born
Be sorry that you were ever born into this world. “I don’t
know why I have such a miserable life. Sometimes I
curse the day I was born.” “In the Bible, after a series of
sufferings and torments, Job curses the day he was ever
born.” “Some people think it is a sin to curse the day you
where ever born.” *

Cushion the blow 
Just as we might put a cushion under an object to absorb
the shock of a heavy blow, so we may also say that we
prepare a person before an emotional blow. “The Managing Partner asked Malcolm to take a seat on the sofa and
gave him a kind smile and a glass of whiskey to cushion
the blow that Malcolm would not be promoted to full
partner this year.” “We shall have to let Higgins go but
we will give him a golden handshake to cushion the
blow.” “To cushion the blow that the factory in Bangkok
would be closed down, the company informed the workers that those who would be willing to relocated to the
Rayong factory site would be compensated for the move,
and that those who did not want to go would be given
financial compensation in accordance with the stipulations of the labor law.” *

Cushy job 
Easy, comfortable, undemanding position of employment. “Everyone is jealous of Evelyn because she has
landed a cushy job as receptionist in her boyfriend’s front
office.” “I wish I could land a cushy job where I could
take it easy and didn’t have to do much or carry much
responsibility.” “After he retired as a Lieutenant Colonel,
Robert landed a cushy desk job with the government as a
safety inspector.”*

Cut a path 
Just as an elephant cuts a path through dense forest and 
jungle, so we say an explorer or researcher cuts a path
through as yet unknown territory. “The Big, brawny
Irishman cut a path through the crowd in the pub and
went straight up to the Bar and ordered a pint of Guinness.” “The runaway steam roller broke through the
hedge and cut a path through Granny’s flower garden,
crushing the sitting-porch and only stopping when it hit
the wall just before the front door.” *

Cut above the average 
On a level that is superior and better than normal. “I must
say that your son’s performance in school is a cut above
average.” “It is the Colonel’s considered opinion that
only one of the new cadets is a cut above average.”
“Nowadays, if you want to land a job in big business,
you have to be more than just a cut above average.” *

Cut across 
Take a shortcut by going diagonally across rather than
around the long way. “Rather than walk along the pavement to school, we took the short way and cut across the
football field.” “Instead of walking along the road to
school, we cut across the railway tracks and took a shortcut through the lumber yard and the local garbage
dump.” “Don’t you just hate those drivers who zigzag
from lane to lane and cut across in front of you?” “When
skiing down the slope, be careful not to cut across diagonally in front another skier in a way that might make him
lose his balance and fall and hurt himself.” *

Cut and run 
On one hand, this idiom means to cut the rope that holds
you and run for your life to freedom and safety. On the
other, it can mean to cut your losses and run from debts
or claims against you and prosecution by the law. “In a
love relationship you cut and run to avoid facing pain or
confrontation.” “I’d better cut and run before she finds
out I’m already married.” “We’d better cut and run before the Securities Commission finds out we’ve been
trading illegally.” *

Cut back 
Economize by reducing costs. “The firm is trying to cut
back costs by introducing economy measures without
making reductions in the number of staff.” “The government is trying to cut back in defense spending in line
with the terms of the Nuclear Cutback Treaty.” “I have
been trying to cut back my personal spending by limiting the amount of cash I carry in my pocket.”*

Cut corners 
Save money by cutting out unnecessary costs. “My income has decreased in such a way that I am forced to cut
corners in every way I can to save money.” “My Dad has
said we will have to cut corners in family spending so we
can lay some money aside to accumulate funds for college.” “Cutting corners to keep costs down should always
be balanced with the need to maximize quality and increase profit.” *

Cut costs 
Reduce expenditures. “In an effort to cut costs, the firm
has called in an efficiency expert to do a study on how
we can save money.” “If we do not do something to cut
costs, by this time next year the company will be showing a loss.” “I have cancelled all my club memberships
and insurance policies in an effort to cut costs, to live
within my income.”*

Cut down to size 
Put someone in his place; show him that he’s not as big
as he thinks he is. “He thinks he is pretty big, but after I
have finished talking to him, he will be cut down to
size.” “Major Collins has a high opinion of himself, but
after Colonel Staley is finished dressing him down, he’ll
be cut down to size.” “Dad thinks he is a pretty powerful
family figure, but whenever we go to Granny’s house for
a visit, she always cuts him down to size.” *

Cut out of the deal 
Exclude someone from sharing in the profits. “My business partners made a secret contractual agreement between themselves to cut me out of the deal so they would
not have to share any profits with me” “Japanese manufacturers used to have a reputation for building up markets in European countries through a local distributor,
whom they would then cut out of the deal as soon as the
market was big enough for the home company to manage
for themselves.” “If you try to cut a street-gang drug
dealer out of the deal he will have to kill you to save
face.” *

Cut in front of 
Swerve or move over in front of someone to cut off his
path. “I hate it when motorcycles cut in front of me in
traffic.” “The other day I was queuing up at the bank
when a big, fat, impatient lady tried to cut in front of
me.” “I was taught that it is polite never to cut in front of
anyone.”*

Cut it out! 
Stop it! Don’t do that! “Quit doing that right now! Cut it
out!” “I want you to stop making noise right now! If you
don’t cut it out, I’ll throw you out!” “I don’t like the way
you are teasing me. You had better cut it out right now
before I get really mad.” *

Cut loose 
Lose control and start acting like a mad or crazy person.
“When Beatrice has drunk too much she suddenly cuts
loose and starts to shower everyone around with angry,
words of vulgar abuse.” “After being insulted so publicly, I cut loose with a string of ugly insults and swearwords that that would have provoked even a holy saint.”
“The attendants tried to subdue the mental patient and
hold him down, but the patient was so worked-up on
adrenalin that he suddenly cut loose and began to rush
angrily around like a bull in a china shop.” *

Cut me in on the deal. 
Give me a share; let me share in the profits. “I hear you
have got a foolproof plan to crack the Casino. Let me in
on the deal.” “Let me in on the action. If you don’t cut
me in on the deal I will reveal your illegal actions.” “I
know that you are planning to inflate the construction
costs by twenty percent and pocket the difference yourselves, and if you don’t cut me in on the deal, I’ll blow
the whistle.” *

Count me out! 
Don’t count on me; I disagree; I won’t help you. “I won’t
participate in your deceitful plan. You can cut me out!”
“I would never take part in a plot to betray a friend. Cut
me out!” “I’m not going to help or participate in your
underhanded scheme to steal money from our own
mother. You can count me out on that one!” *

Cut me some slack Don’t punish me too severely; be understanding and go
easy on me. “Oh, come on! Don’t judge me too harshly.
Cut me some slack. Loosen up and go easy on me.” “I
am hoping that the discipline board will cut me some
slack on account of my honesty and willingness to learn
from my mistake.” “If students get used to the idea that
university officials should cut them some slack just because they are young, it will encourage bad behavior.”*

Cut off all contact 
Cut relations. “After I asked Maggie to move out of my
house, she cut off all contact with me, and I never heard
from her again.” “My first husband took our only child,
suddenly disappeared and cut off all contact with me.”
“The British have cut off all official contacts with aggressive elements of the IRA.” *

Cut out for the job 
Having the ideal qualities required. “Because I have a
natural talent for words and language and writing, I am
cut out for the job of being an editor.” “My friend, Susan,
loves to work with numbers and she is cut out for the job
of being a tax consultant.” “I was not cut out to be a tax
consultant. What I really always wanted to be was dress
designer.” *

Cut short 
To end before the time originally scheduled. “The President has cut short his holiday in Alaska, because of the
hurricane alert in Florida.” “My family and I had to cut
short our weekend at the seaside and return to the city
because Grandmother was ill.” “Due to a family emergency, I regret to inform you that I must cut short my
visit to your country and cancel our appointment for next
Tuesday.” *

Cut someone off 
Just as you can cut someone off from moving and proceeding further, so you can cut someone off in speaking
or acting further. “In the old cowboy movies, the sheriff
and boys used to cut off the gang of bad guys at the
mouth of a mountain pass.” “Don’t cut me off in mid-
sentence! I am the chairman of this meeting.” “Prof. Davies talked for so long that the director of ceremonies
finally had to cut him off.” *

Cut the ice 
Find a way to get acquainted or get a conversation
started; use a warm-up or get-acquainted device. “When
I want to start a conversation with a girl, I ask her at
which university she studied, just to cut the ice.” “When
you are giving a presentation, first take a deep breath and
look around the room and smile, just to cut the ice.”
“Professor Higgenbottom often starts off his lectures
with joke just to cut the ice.” *

Cut to ribbons 
Just as a factory machine can cut a length of satin into
pieces of ribbon, so we can say that a person or group of
people is cut to ribbons by an opponent or an investigating authority. “The leader of Socialist Coalition was cut
to ribbons by conservative MPs during the parliamentary
debate on the founding of a socialist welfare state.” “I am
afraid that if I debate the case in point with the prosecuting attorney, he will cut me to ribbons.” “You’d better
tell the full truth to the Revenue Department, because if
they catch you lying or trying to pass-off falsified documents, their officials will cut you to ribbons.” *

Cut to the chase 
Don’t explain the development of the whole story just cut
to the end; leave out the introductory information, and
come straight to the point; don’t bother leading up to the
point; come to the climax directly leaving out the details
and tell the final result. “I don’t have the patience to listen to a lot of preliminary detail. Cut to the chase and tell
me if I’m going to live or die.” “Time is money. Cut to
the chase, and tell me what this is going to cost me.”
“Don’t confuse me with the facts. Cut to the chase and
tell me how long I am going to have to spend in jail.”*

Cut to the pith of the matter
Talk directly to the point; refer directly to the inner core
(the heart) of the matter; come quickly to the main idea
without unnecessary delay; go straight to the center of
the issue. “Don’t talk around the issue in circles. Cut to
the pith of the matter.” “Stop beating around the bush
and cut straight to the pith of the matter.” “Skip the preamble; we haven’t got any time to waste. Cut to the pith
of the matter.” *

Cut to the quick 
Deeply hurt in the center of your being; cut right into the
heart; wounded in your weakest point. “I was cut to the
quick, when she said my poems were uncreative.”
“When father said I was the least favorite of his sons, he
cut me to the quick.” “When she said she could never
love me under any circumstances, her words cut me to
the quick.” *

Cut your losses 
Absorb your financial losses and do not invest any more 
so you won’t lose any more. “The investment didn’t
work out, so Ken has decided to stop and cut his losses
and is trying to make up the money in some other way.”
“A good businessman instinctively knows when it’s time
to cut his losses and run before he loses even more. “The
firm has decided to erase all bad and cut its losses and try
to do a better job of risk management to avoid losing any
more money.” *

Cut-and-dried 
Definitely-determined; exactly-decided; clear and certain: the way it is; can’t be changed after-the-fact. “The
judge’s decision is clear and definite, cut and dried, and
there’s no new evidence to justify re-opening the case.”
“These are the indisputable facts, cut and dried, clear and
exact, and they cannot be denied or questioned.” “Tax
regulations are clear, cut and dried regarding the establishment of a foreign-entity opening a permanent representative office in Thailand, and there is no possibility of
an exception to the rules.” *

Cut-off from the world 
Isolated, in a far and distant place with little or no human
contact. “I want to go and live as a forest recluse alone in
a cave fully cut-off from the world.” “When you live in a
research station in Antarctica, you are literally cut off
from the world.” “I am so disenchanted with human behavior that I want to go and live on a far-off and remote
island where I will be totally cut-off from the world.” *

Cut-off point 
The absolute bare minimum; the bare requirement; the
lowest point acceptable. “A score of 650 on the English
language test is the minimum cut-off point for acceptance for study abroad.” “The cut-off-point for being
acceptable for short term loans is a minimum income of
sixty thousand Baht per month.” "We have so many good
applicants for the graduate program that we are going to
have to short-list all those with a cut-off point for the
GPA of 3.8 or more and, then, interview them one-byone to decide which will be accepted and which will be
eliminated.” *

Cutthroat prices 
Over-priced; ruthless exploitation; highway robbery. “I
never buy things in airport tourist shops because they
charge cutthroat prices.” “Many of the merchants in the
Bazaar in Istanbul charge foreigners cutthroat prices.” “I
never take a taxi from the airport into the city because I
refuse to pay the cutthroat prices they charge.” *

Cutting edge 
The absolute forward-edge of technological development. “Bluetooth communications must stay at the absolute cutting edge of development if they want to beat the
competition.” “I wouldn’t want to be an IT specialist because I would always have to keep myself at the cutting
edge of new technology.” “The problem with starting up 
a new information technology company is that you always have to stay on the cutting edge or fall behind in
the race to keep ahead of developments in new technology.”*

Cutting remark 
A sarcastic or critical remark that is made with hurtful
intentions. “I was deeply hurt by Kurt’s cutting remark
that he suspected my motives to be insincere.” “A person
who is always making cutting remarks about others is
just feeding his own inferiority complex.” “I cannot take
my husband anywhere in polite society. He is always being sarcastic and making cutting remarks about the people he sees and meets.” *

Cutting ties with 
Discontinuing relations with. “Turkey cut off all relations
with Greece, and the Cypriot Greeks are cutting off ties
with their Turk neighbors.” “The Israeli delegates are
cutting off all diplomatic ties with Palestinian activist
representatives.” “I am in the process of preparing documents allowing me the legal right of cutting off all ties
with my family.” *

Cutting–up 
Misbehaving; being naughty; acting up. “Stop that cutting-up and causing trouble just to get attention!” “I can’t
take my kids anywhere. They are always cutting-up and
being naughty.” “If you don’t stop your cutting-up and
playing the fool, I’m going to send you to bed immediately.” *

Dab 
A little. “Give me just a little dab of butter on my
cracker.” “I think I would like just a little dab of caviar
on my cracker.” “Put a tiny, little dab of whitening cream
on the end of your index finger and then spread it thinly
over the tip of your nose.” *

Dabble in 
Play around at and enjoy doing something a in an unprofessional way. “You might say that I dabble in art, but no
one would ever say that I was an accomplished painter.”
“The reason I have accumulated such a large private collection is because I like to dabble in antiques.” “At one
time Thomas dabbled a bit in real estate and even made a
little money, but then after a few bad investments, he
gave it up as a bad job and an expensive pastime.” *

Damaged goods 
Just as goods can be damaged in transit, so we may say
that a person has become damaged goods in the process
of life. “I would stay away from that girl, Evelyn, if I 
were you. She was abused and mistreated in her first
marriage, and she is damaged goods” “When Dale was a
child he was so psychologically brutalized that the effects stayed with him into manhood and caused him to
become an unstable, inadequate marriage partner.” “I
would not advise you to get involved with that newly appointed union leader. He’d damaged goods. He’s not
quite right in the head.” *

Damn with faint praise 
Blame by giving only weak praise “If you say that a
thing is ‘not bad’ that is a way of condemning it with
faint praise, because if you say something is ‘not bad’ it
implies that it is ‘not good’ either.” “Another way of
damning with faint praise is to say that a woman looks
‘quite attractive’ which means that she is good-looking
but not really beautiful.” “Critics sometimes damn a
play or work of art by saying it ‘shows talent’ when what
they really mean id that it shows a talent that has yet to
be cultivated to do its best.” *

Dampen your hopes 
Just as gunpowder will not burn if it is damp or wet, so a
certain condition may also be said to discourage your
spirit and make you lose hope. “When I saw that I only
had a 3.2 grade average, that dampened my hopes of ever
getting into one of the very best graduate schools.”
“When Colleen first saw the other contestants in the
beauty Queen contest it dampened her initial hopes of
winning.” “When the presidential candidate realized he
would have trouble raising campaign funds, it dampened
his hopes of entering the race.” *

Dark days ahead 
A dim and dismal future. “The political future looks
grim. With everyone who has influence struggling for
power to seek his own gain, there appear to be dark days
ahead.” “As we watch man rapidly depleting the world’s
natural resources, we realize that there will be dark days
ahead.” “With the rise of independent nuclear weapons in
the hands of potentially hostile nations, there seem to be
dark days ahead.” *

Dark horse 
Just as a race horse that is never expected to win might
come up from behind into first place in the race, so we
might say that a candidate with little hopes of winning an
election surprises everybody and wins. “The boys in the
bar have told us a tip, direct from the horse’s mouth, that
a dark horse called Skinny-Minnie will pull ahead to win
the fourth race.” “Who would have ever thought that an
independent, woman from the South who was running
for Presidential Election as a dark horse could ever catch
up and take the lead ahead of her Republican and Democratic rivals?” In the recent election, Senator Carey
who at first appeared to be the front runner ended up as a 
dark horse who could not pull into the lead.” *

Dart around 
Just as swallows glide and dart around as they fly in the
air, so a person may be said to move about quickly.
“When I go into the hyper-convenience store, once I get
a shopping basket, I dart around, from aisle to aisle,
grabbing the things want, and I’m finished and checkedthrough cash and back in my car in less than three minutes.” “Motorcyclists that dart in and out, zipping and out
cutting and forth between lanes are a hazard to road
safety.” “My girlfriend doesn’t like it when I dart around,
in and out of traffic.”*

Dart out a minute 
Just as a bird darts and dives in the sky, so we say will
dash or dart off for a minute to do something and then
come right back. “Stay here while I dart out a minute to
get some ice from the ice-machine. Just sit tight were you
are, and don’t move.” “Can you watch my shop while I
dart out a minute to the ATM machine?” “You guys just
sit here and wait while I dart out and buy a bottle of
whiskey. I’ll be right back.” *

Dash against the rocks 
Just as a ship may be dashed against the rocks and broken into bits and pieces, so one’s hopes may be said to be
dashed against the rocks. “When the letter came from the
Air Force Academy saying that they could not accept me
to be trained as a pilot, my hopes were dashed against the
rocks.” “All my lifelong-dreams were shattered and
dashed against the rocks in just a minute when Eleanor
said she no longer loved me.” “My hopes were dashed
against the rocks when the bank refused to accept my
business plan.” *

Dash off home 
Hurry or rush home. “If you will excuse me now. I’m
going to dash of home to my darling wife, while you
guys stay here and have another round of drinks on me.”
“Tell the boss that I have to dash off home and pick up
the audit report that I forgot.” “Please cancel all of my
appointments for today. I’ve got to dash off home because of a family emergency.”*

Day and night 
All around the clock continuously without stopping. “I
worry day and night what will happen to my investment
and if my business partners are intending to betray me.” I
used to have a job where I worked day and night as a
driver during the day and a watchman during the night.”
“My wife is always yattering away at me day and night
because of my careless habits.” *

Day in and day out 
In the course of one’s constant day-by-day routine. “I
hate doing the same old thing day in and day out in my
job routine. I wish something new would happen once in
a while just to break the monotony of my routine.” “This
old day-to-day routine is so tedious and boring I sometimes think it will drive me mad and make me do something crazy one day.” I just sit at my computer writing
educational materials, day in and day out.” *

Day of doom 
The end of the world on the day when the world is destroyed as a punishment for its evil. “There is so much
evil building up in the world right now they the day of
doom is quickly approaching.” The preacher said that the
day of doom was approaching and that we had better beg
God for forgiveness of our sins before it was too late.”
“My husband is so ignorant and stubborn he would never
give in, not even if I waited to the day of doom.” *

Day of reckoning 
The day you go to heaven and God looks over your record to decide on your doom. “Fundamentalist Christians
believe that when they die, is the day of their reckoning
when they go before God who judges them for the way
they have behaved during their lives and the sends them
to heaven nor hell or some place in-between.” “I hope
that on the day of reckoning, God will be merciful with
me for my sins.” “If we keep abusing the environment
the way we are the day of reckoning is bound to come
whether there is a God or a Church or not.” *

Daylight robbery 
Charging unusually high prices even out in public places
where everyone can see. “Paying twenty-fifty five dollars
to have your picture taken on a camel in front of the
Pyramids with your own digital camera is daylight robbery. Those thievish camel drivers ought to be whipped.”
“Paying sixty dollars for airport transfer into the town
center is daylight robbery.” “Being forced to pay airport
tax is a clear case of greed and daylight robbery.” *

Dead and buried 
An old story that is long since forgotten. “Don’t dig up
your old resentment against our uncle. It is a story that is
long since dead and buried. Just let it go and forget about
it.” The old hatreds between the Germans and the Americans are long since dead and buried.” “Stop bringing up
your grudge about father’s will. What’s done is done and
both the issue and father have long since been dead and
buried.” *

Dead beat 
Really tired. “I’m going to go to bed early. I am dead
beat from working so hard in the heat all day.” “The
firemen have been fighting flash forest for three days
now, with little or no sleep, and they are dead beat.”
“People who sit around in night clubs all night until
dawn every day feel dead beat when it’s time to go to
work in the morning.” *

Dead duck 
A plan or idea that has failed and is too late to be altered
or brought back to life. “When the Democrats realized
their proposed health care plan was a dead duck they
quickly let it plop back into the water.” “The Premier’s 
plan to create jobs and provide better welfare care for the
poor proved to be a dead duck on the floor of parliament
because it met with too much conservative opposition.”
“I often tell my students that when something they are
writing is a dead duck which can not be fixed by rewriting.”*

Dead end 
A street that goes in and just stops at the end; goes nowhere; cul-de-sac. “Becoming a heroine addict is a dead
end.” “Hillary realized her health plan was a dead end so
she had to give it up.” “Asking philosophical questions
that cannot be answered is a dead end.” *

Dead giveaway 
Something that shows clear evidence of deceitful, secret
or hidden intentions. “The look of shame in his eyes is a
dead giveaway that Clarence is lying to his mother.”
“The plumpness of Carole’s tummy is a dead giveaway
that she is already at least three months pregnant. I wonder who the father is?” “The disappearance of Clarence
on the night of Carole’s murder is a dead giveaway that
he had something to do with it.” *

Dead heat 
Photo finish; nose-on nose; even-draw. “When two
horses run neck-and-neck in a race, we sat they are running a dead heat.” “In an any race when two competitors
record the same time for a certain distance, this is declared to have been a dead heat.” “So far in the election it
seems to be a dead heat between the two leading candidates who seem to be neck-and-neck, in dead heat with
each pulling about thirty-three percent of the popular
vote.” *

Dead in the water 
Just as a ship without an engine is dead in the water, so
we can say a plan or venture is dead in the water when it
is adrift and not making headway. “After the primary investor backed out of the deal and took his money with
him, the whole project was dead in the water.” “Our
website’s grand plan to post the entire Tipitaka translated
into English on the internet appears to be dead in the water.” “The government’s plan to increase VAT to ten percent appears to be dead in the water at the moment.” *

Dead of night 
The darkest hour of the night. “The ghost scene in the
play occurs in the dead of night atop the walls of the palace when even the guards are asleep.” “In the dead of
night someone who doesn’t like me crept into my garden
and hung a human skeleton from my mango tree.” “My
first wife left me taking all our money in the dead of the
night while I was asleep after taking my sleeping tablet.”*

Dead on target 
Hitting exactly what you aimed for. “Tommy threw a
stone at a frog on a log in the middle of the pond and hit
it dead on target.” “In the old days, longbow archers 
could shoot their arrows a hundred yards and hit an approaching enemy dead on target.” “Nowadays, they have
smart bombs that can direct them selves exactly to their
destinations and hit them dead on target.” “Our marketing team met their budget dead on target and the company is giving them a bonus.” *

Dead on your feet 
So tired you can hardly stand up. “I’m dead on my feet
from standing at the bar all night, so I’m going to knock
it off now and go to bed and get some rest.” “At the end
of the day, mom is dead on her feet from all the many
household chores she has to do.” “After marching thirty
kilometers during the heat of the day in the burning desert, the platoon of soldiers was almost dead on its feet.”
“Someone who stands all day working as a hotel doorman must feel dead on his feet at the end of his shift.” *

Dead on! 
Just as ships use a compass and arrive at their destinations dead on course, so “You can say that someone is
dead on when he have somehow arrived at the right conclusion. “Dead on! That’s exactly right.” “Sherlock
Holmes was dead on when he suspected the butler had
poisoned designated for him in the master’s will.” “Your
guess id dead on! Dead right! How could you have
known there were eighty-four thousand angels on the
head of the pin?” *

Dead ringer 
Someone who looks exactly like someone else. “They
have got a guy singing in a bar down town who is a real
dead ringer for Elvis Presley.” “There is some fellow
who is a dead ringer for Gandhi who is going around giving meditation lessons.” “Sadam Hussein had several
men who looked just like him, who were such dead ringers you could hardly tell them apart, and he used to send
them out to perform his duties at functions he did not
want to attend himself.” *

Dead set against 
Absolutely opposed. “My father is dead set against me
marrying anyone outside of my own religion, but I do not
agree with his traditional view.” “The CEO is dead set
against any increases in salary until the company has met
its obligation to establish a financial reserve.” “I was
dead set against the Americans going into the Iraq war
just to selfishly protect their own oil interests. *

Dead to the world 
Asleep and totally unconscious of one’s surroundings.
“After I take my sleeping pill, I am dead to the world for
at least six hours.”
Dead wood Something useless that needs to be cut out, like dead
wood in a forest reserve.
Often in government we say we need to cut out deadwood, like unnecessary bureaucratic procedures so more
useful procedures can take their place. “I used to tell my 
students that unnecessary wording in their essays was
dead wood that needed to be cut out.”*

Deadpan face 
Showing no emotion; expressionless; poker-faced; blank;
unreadable; straight-faced. “Stupid jokes are even-morefunny, when the comedian can tell them with an absolutely deadpan face.” “Card players keep a deadpan,
poker face, when gambling, so no one can see how they
feel about the cards they are holding.” “Dirty politicians
can tell even the most outrageous lies with an absolutely
deadpan face.” *

Dead-set-against 
Absolutely opposed to; unable to comply; unwilling to
agree; wholly resistant. “I am dead set against my daughter going abroad to study in the USA because I feel
Americans are much too liberal in matters of sexual morality.” “I am dead set against the idea of my son becoming an actor, but he is going to go ahead and give it a try
anyway.” “The President and the cabinet are dead set
against the idea of declaring out-and-out war.”*

Dead-tired 
So tired that you almost feel dead; so tired that you
hardly have the energy to even move. “I’m going to bed
early because I didn’t get much sleep last night and I
dead-tired.” “I’m dead tired from eighteen hours of traveling, and I’m looking forward to getting some sleep.”
“I’m so dead tired from physical labor that I can hardly
move a muscle.” *

Dead-to-the-world 
Fast asleep; in a very deep sleep; a slumber so sound that
you are oblivious to the outside world; you would be
hard to awaken, especially if sleeping off the effects of
drugs or drink. “I fell into such a deep sleep that I was
dead to the world and slept for fourteen hours solid.” “I
must have been dead to the world because I didn’t even
hear the alarm clock go off this morning.” “Don’t even
try to wake up grandfather; he’s still dead to the world,
after drinking a whole bottle-of-whiskey last night.” *

Death and taxes 
Everything is as inevitable as death and taxes. “Death
and taxes cannot be avoided but greed and corruption
can.” “The inevitably of uncertainty is as sure as death
and taxes.” “Death and taxes are the only two things you
can be sure of, and the government have just legislated a
new law about levying the latter on the former.” *

Death toll 
The number of dead counted. “The death toll of the hurricane that devastated the West Florida coastline was
three-hundred and eighteen at last count.” “There has
been a human stampede in a football stadium in Brazil in
which the death toll has reached eighty-three.” “The
death toll of the bomb explosion in the Sunday Market
was one hundred and twenty three persons.” *

Death trap 
A place in which many victims would be burned-to-death if there were ever a fire when it was fully crowded
with people. “Many discos that teenagers like to visit are
death traps with too few exits through which to escape in
the case of fire.” “Many hotels in Pattaya are potential
death traps because they keep the fire exits locked to
prevent guests leaving without paying their bills.” “Big
shopping malls are potential deathtraps because no would
know how to get out in case of a burning holocaust.” *

Death wish 
Inherent wish to die. “Psychologists have taken tests and
done research which suggests that all human beings have
some form of inherent death wish.” “Some psychos and
weirdoes have such a pronounced death wish that they
dramatically destroy themselves.” “Others acting out a
hidden death wish slowly drink themselves to death and
finally fulfill their wish.” *

Death’s doorstep 
The moment before death or almost at the point of death.
“Even though I know that I am at death’s doorstep, I do
not feel worried or fearful about coming to the end of my
life.” “Father was so ill with bronchial pneumonia he was
nearing death’s doorstep, but after six days in the hospital he began to recover and, now, is out of danger.”
“With only twenty percent pulmonary output I am nearing death’s doorstep, but I do not fear death.” *
Debatable point An uncertain; questionable; doubtful; dubious; undecided; arguable fact or point-of-view. “Whether human
cloning is unethical is a debatable point.” “Whether the
world is progressing or regressing is a debatable point.”
“It is a debatable point, whether captured terrorists
should be held as combatants rather than as prisoners of
war.” *

Debt of gratitude 
To owe or be indebted to someone due to thankfulness
for something they have done for you. “We all owe a
debt of gratitude to Governor for the way he helped handle the clean-up operations after the tornado.” “The platoon owes a great debt of gratitude to Sgt. Wilkins for the
excellent way he trained us in wilderness survival skills.”
“I owe a great debt of gratitude to my grandfather for
teaching me the difference between what is right and
wrong.” *

Deciding factor 
The main contributing factor that determined the outcome. “The deciding factor in the invasion of Iraq was
not merely to depose Sadaam Hussein but to get control
of oil reserves.” “The deciding factor that caused the Finance Minister to lower bank loan interest rates was to
loosen up cash and increase spending.” “The deciding
factor for me in moving to Thailand was that I wanted to
live in a Buddhist country.” *

Deciding moment 
The moment circumstances came together to result in the 
final effect. “I think the deciding moment in my career
was when I followed my favorite Professor’s advice and
went abroad to study in Europe.” “The deciding moment
in the election was the day the candidate promised support to the activist gay and women’s right’s movements.
That got him the three percent of the votes that he
needed.” “The deciding moment was when the soldier
was forced to decide whether to kill or be killed.” *

Decked-out-in your Sunday best
All dressed-up in your best clothes to make a good impression. “Big Momma likes to get all-decked-out-in her
Sunday best to go to Church each week.” “When you put
on your best suit of clothes and groom yourself to look
your very best, no matter what day of the week it is, we
say you are decked out in your Sunday best.” “When
Dad dies he wants to be laid in his coffin, all decked out
in his Sunday best.” *

Decline an invitation 
Not accept, turn down or refuse to accept an invitation.
“My first husband invited me to his second wedding, but
I declined the invitation.” “I’m getting so old and tired,
now, that I can no longer go running all around everywhere and often have to decline an invitation. “The Princess is invited to preside at so many social occasions, that
she often has no other choice but to decline an invitation.” *

Decline comment 
Refuse to say anything. “I have nothing to say, and that is
what I am saying. I decline comment.” “When they asked
the Prime minister what he thought of the scandalous affair, he declined comment.” “Often, when you are asked
to express an opinion but have nothing good to say, it is
better to decline comment.”*

Deep down inside 
Hidden in the unconscious mind. “I keep trying to convince myself to forget my first husband, but deep down
inside, I am as much in love with him now as I ever
was.” “He behaves like a real tough guy, but deep down
inside, he’s as soft as a marsh-mellow.” “I try to make
everyone think I am a good guy, but deep down inside I
am unsure sometimes myself whether my motives are
entirely unselfish.” *

Deep water Something that is over your head, so you are in deep
trouble. “Just as you can be in deep water when swimming, so we say we are in deep water when we are into
trouble over our heads.” “At first, we had cash flow
problems, but that was not so bad; the thing that put us in
really deep water financially was the rising cost of building materials.” “The Dean said that Howard had often
been in trouble for breaking minor dormitory rules, but
now they had caught him taking drugs with a woman in
his room, he was really in deep water.” * 

Deep, dark secret 
A well-kept secret that no one has ever known. “They
say that everybody has a deep, dark secret that they
wouldn’t want anyone else to know.” “Governor Collins
has a deep, dark secret that would blow the lid off his
career if anybody were ever to know.” “What happened
to the Saudi jewels was thought to be a deep, dark secret,
but, actually, many high-ranking officials knew where
they had disappeared to.” *

Deep-rooted 
Unconscious, deep-seated, deeply-embedded. “When we
bottle up deep-seated emotions, we become like a pressure cooker. “For as long as I can remember, there has
always been a deep-rooted hatred between the IRA and
the Pro-English Irish.” “The causes of anti-social behavior and resentment against authority are often deeprooted.” *

Defensive attitude 
Aggressive behavior of someone easily offended by criticism. “Whenever Gloria asks her husband to try to improve his manners, he always takes on a defensive attitude.” “Charles tends to fend off personal attacks by assuming a defensive attitude.” “Often, in press conferences, when asked aggressive questions, the president
adopts a defensive attitude.”*

Defer to someone’s opinion
Give in and follow the other person’s view or attitude.
“Although it is against my better judgment, I defer to the
judge’s opinion that our child should remain in my exwife’s custody.” “Although the members of the cabinet
were divided on the issue of what to do, they decided to
defer to the president’s opinion.” “In this case although I
do not entirely agree with her, I shall defer to my wife’s
opinion.” *

Defuse the situation 
Resolve and smooth out an otherwise inflamatory or explosive situation. “The delegates were at one another’s
throats, and a negotiator had to be brought in to defuse
the situation.” “Selfish demands by tribal chieftains are
escalating conflicts that are about to break out into civil
war, so the United Nations is sending in a special envoy
to help diffuse the situation” “Tensions were tight during
bargaining sessions between management and labor and
finally to avoid a breakdown in talks, an independent
mediator had to be drought in to defuse the situation” *

Degenerate behavior 
Immoral behavior below generally accepted standards.
“The neighbor’s children behave like beasts. I have never
in my life seen such degenerate behavior.” “Your husband behaved like an absolute beast at the party. I have
never seen such degenerate behavior in my life.” “One of
the problems with having low-grade British soldiers
posted on Iraqi soil is that their drinking and degenerate
behavior can be offensive to the local people and religion.” “Father has told me that if I do not give up my
drinking and gambling and womanizing and degenerate
behavior in general, he is going to cut me out of his
will.” *

Degrading remark 
Demeaning, denigrating, belittling comment. “To call
Dunsure a loathsome beast is a degrading comment.”
“Don’t you make any of your usual degrading remarks
when you meet my family or they will think you lookdown-on others.” “One of the objects of right speech is
to catch yourself before you maker degrading remarks
about others to avoid doing yourself and others harm.” *

Delegate authority 
Designate and entrust someone to do a job. “A good
manager knows how to delegate authority to qualified
staff members in order to get the job done.” “A Major
General cannot run an Army all by himself, so that’s why
he has qualified officers to whom he can delegate authority.” “One of the qualities of being an effective president
is in knowing how to delegate authority to spread the
workload and to keep yourself free enough to maintain a
broad overview.” *

Delusions of grandeur 
False, inflated ideas of your own importance. “A person
who thinks he is better and higher and more superior to
everybody else has delusions of grandeur.” “You can
find people in mental homes that have delusions of grandeur and think they are Napoleon or the King of France.”
“Some people who get a lot of money and political
power develop delusions of grandeur, when, in fact, they
are nothing but a lot of dirty little crooks.” *

Delve into the depths 
Go deeply into an investigation of a question. “It is a
mystery to everyone how tens of millions of dollars
could just disappear into thin air, but tax investigators are
being brought in to delve into the depths of the matter.”
“Doctors do not know why B virus is so prevalent in
South East Asia, but they are beginning research to study
the causes and delve into the depths of the matter.” “The
question of whether the world is infinite and eternal is
something so profound, that you cannot understand it
without delving deeply into the depths of the matter.” *

Demolition order 
The court order to tear down or blow up and destroy a
building. “It is against the law to explode and demolish
buildings and structures without first getting a demolition
order from the proper authorities.” “The superior court
has given a demolition order to blow up the National Stadium in order to make place for a new one.” “The strategic bridge was blown up after a demolition order was
received from British Command Headquarters.” *

Denounce as a traitor 
Name as someone who has turned against and betrayed
the cause; become a double agent. “The American IT 
specialist who sold military secrets to the Chinese was
denounced as a traitor and sentenced life imprisonment.”
“When the defense minister turned-against the President
on the issue of National Security, the president denounced him as a traitor.” “When the interior minister
refused to order gas attacks against women and children
amidst his own people, the Premier denounced him as a
traitor to government policies and had him executed immediately.”*

Depart from this world 
Pass away and die. “Sometimes, I wish I could depart
from this world to be freed from earthly suffering and
pain, but then, I think of something I still want to try and
change my mind again.” “It is satisfying to know that,
when I depart from this world, my loved ones will be
provided for in accordance with my last will and testament.” “They say that when you depart from this world,
if your mind is focused on some pure, wholesome
thought, you will go to a heavenly abode.” *

Depend on 
Rely on somebody to aid and assist you. “Everybody let
me down, so I had no one left to depend on.” “So I cut
off my ties with everyone and tried to depend on myself
alone.” “When you know you can’t even depend on
yourself, you can’t blame others for being undependable.” *

Depict as a villain 
Attempt to make some one look like the bad guy or person of evil intent. “The opposition is trying to depict the
Prime Minister as a villain, while members of his own
party are setting him up as a national hero.” “Liberals
always depict the defense minister as a villain when the
are enemy casualties in foreign wars.” “After our divorce, my wife went around talking to everyone and depicting me as the villain.” *

Depths of depression 
The worst, lowest levels of sadness, misery and despair.
“When I was a Sophomore, I went trough a period in
which I was sunk in the depths of depression but it was
only a stage in growing up, and I soon got over it.”
“When I was in my thirties, I almost drank myself to
death in the face of the depths of depression of existential
despair.” “Nowadays, people who are chronically in the
depths of depression can be helped by being prescribed
pharmaceutical products which can bring them back to
states of near normalcy.”*

Dereliction of duty 
Neglect and disregard for one’s delegated responsibilities. “A military officer who falls asleep on guard-duty
during his watch is guilty of a dereliction of duty.” “The
Officer of the Watch who caused the merchant oil tanker
to run aground, due to his drunken-ness, was accused of
dereliction of duty.” “They are now accusing the Justice 
Minister of dereliction of duty for not accusing the President of war crimes and taking him to justice.” *

Derive from 
Get, gain or originate from. “These extra profits derive
from upward fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.”
“All income derived from direct sales is subject to value
added tax.” “The Revenue Department, together with the
Committee Against Corruption is in the process of seizing all illegal income without transparent sources and
using the money for the national good.” *

Derogatory comments 
Belittling, derisive, critical remarks. “People who make
derogatory remarks about others are feeding their own
egos and inferiority complexes.” “Let’s have no derogatory comments about the opposing members of debate
team just because they happen to hold another point-ofview.” “People who make derogatory comments about
others are low-minded and mean-spirited.” *

Deserve better 
Be worthy of better treatment or circumstances. “I don’t
see why my family treats me so badly I think I deserve
better treatment.” “Why don’t you get rid of that no-good
husband of yours? You certainly deserve better.” “We
think it is a shame that you put mother in an old people’s
home; we think that she deserves better than that.” *

Deserving cause 
Worthy; justifiable. “A lot of people donate to the Red
Cross because they know it is a worthy cause.” “We donated a lot of time and money to the Tsunami victims
because we thought it was for a deserving cause.” “When
David saw the poor abandoned people living in the old
folk’s home, he considered it a deserving cause and made
a generous donation,” *

Designated driver
A person who drives a group of people who will be
drinking alcohol but who will no drink alcohol himself.
“Since I will not drink alcohol at the party, all my friends
are coming with me in my car and I am the designated
driver.” “My friends and I all drink like fish, but when
we go to the beer festival, one of us has to stay sober and
serves as the designated driver.” “When my Daddy used
go to a wedding and drink whiskey, I was assigned as the
designated driver.” *

Desperate measures 
Undertake strong, forceful actions to prevent unwanted
events from happening. “Desperate situations require
desperate measures.” “The President has stated that he is
ready to take desperate measures to fend off the immanent threat of terrorist attacks.” “The firm faces the risk
of bankruptcy in the third quarter, and if we do not take
desperate measures to cut down on labor and energy
costs, we are going to go bust for sure.” *

Despicable behavior 
An appalling, dreadful, shameful way of behaving. “Despite his rank and wealth, the people came to despise him 
for his disgraceful behavior.” “You will never be able to
gain the respect of others if you don’t stop your drunken
debauchery and despicable behavior.” “Dad says that
promising to marry a girl just so you can get sex is despicable behavior.” *

Despicable deed 
A wicked and shameful act; an action that is appalling,
dreadful, loathsome and vile; a deed to be despised. “An
act of incest is a despicable deed, indeed.” “To murder
your own child is a despicable deed.” “To betray your
best-friend, so his enemies can stab him in the back is a
despicable deed.” *

Detached from the world 
Standing back from the world and watching with equanimity. “The way to avoid stress is to stand back and observe and remain detached from the world and not get
involved in its struggles.” “An even better way to stay
calm and balanced and detached from the world is to
practice a regular routine of meditation.” “Surely the best
way is to become a monk and stay in the temple and
meditate upon attachment to sensation until you become
wholly detached from the world.” *

Detained for questioning 
Held by police for interrogation. “Three suspects have
been detained for questioning in the case of Bangkok
Bank robbery.” “All known drug dealers have been
rounded up and detained for questioning in a campaign to
stop the flow of drugs from getting onto the streets.” “Six
Muslim separatists have been detained for questioning
regarding the bomb blast in Central Railway Station.” *

Determined-effort Strong-minded, resolute, unrelenting effort. “If you don‘t
make a determined effort in getting an education, you are
very likely to fail in your attempt to succeed in life.”
“After making six months of determined effort, Cora finally managed to bring her weight down by thirty kilos.”
“The World Health Organization is making a determined
effort world wide to stamp out conditions that lead to
Malaria.” *

Detrimental effect 
An intention or cause that results in a harmful effect.
“Carbon gasses are having a detrimental effect on the
ozone layer.” “All that cheap whiskey Tom has been
drinking has been having a detrimental effect on both his
brain and liver.” “Constant greed and worry are bound to
have a detrimental effect on your health, sooner or later.”*

Devastating situation 
A state of affairs with destructive, overwhelming, shocking conditions. “In the face of such a devastating situation, the Tsunami victims were totally at a loss to know
where to begin or what to do.” “After the World Trade
Center Bombing, the mayor of New York was faced with
a devastating situation.” “When my husband ran away 
with a younger woman and left me with four children I
was in an absolutely devastating emotional situation.” *

Deviate from the norm 
Diverge, differ and digress from the mean; be different
from what is normal. “If you live in normal society, and
you deviate from the norm, people will think you are
weird.” “The results of my blood-tests deviate from the
norm, so my doctors are giving me further tests to try to
determine the cause.” “Sometimes there are random impulses that deviate from the norm that could be an early
sign of developing abnormality; this is as true for scientific research as it is for people.” *

Devil in disguise 
A bad influence dressed up as a good intention. “A wolf
dressed-up to look like a little girl’s grandmother is a
devil in disguise.” “Don’t be fooled the apparent benevolent, loving-kindness of Evelyn’s husband. He’s actually
a devil in disguise.” “Sometimes a demon can take on
attractive human form and appear to someone to try to
tempt him as a devil in disguise.” *

Devil’s advocate 
Someone who tests an argument just by saying the opposite, to see if it holds water. “Someone who always says
the opposite just for the sake of argument is playing the
devil’s advocate.” “My uncle Roger is always playing the
devil’s advocate by questioning the truth of whatever
people say; sometimes his intervention is helpful, but,
more often, it is harmful.” “Just for the sake of argument,
let me play the devil’s advocate and ask what happens if
our assumption is wrong.” *

Devious intentions 
Deceitful, sneaky, tricky, underhanded, scheming motives. “I don’t know what he is up to, but you can be sure
that he has devious intentions.” “Someone who is secretly scheming to do an evil action may be said to have
devious intentions.” “Sometimes you cannot see what is
in a person’s mind, so you are not sure whether he has
good or devious intentions.” *

Devoted husband 
Loyal, dedicated, faithful husband. “My father was a
loyal and devoted husband to my mother and never
cheated on her even once in his life.” “It seems to be getting harder and harder for a young woman to find a loyal
and devoted husband.” “If you marry me, I promise with
all my heart that I will forever be a loyal and devoted
husband.” *

Devoted to the cause 
Committed to the cause with loyalty and devotion. “I am
devoted to the cause of freedom but not so devoted that I
would kill and die for it.” “I am devoted to the cause of
freedom but not so devoted that I would kill and die for
it.” “Catherine is a loyal, dedicated and faithful Red
Cross Volunteer who is devoted to the cause.” “The government says that its young men should be so devoted to 
the cause of freedom that they are ready to fight for their
country if necessary.” *

Diatribe against 
Verbal attack and denunciation against; strong and extended criticism against. “In Church on Sunday, the
preacher directed a diatribe against lust and sin that put
the fear of the Lord into his parishioners.” “Antiabortionists have been conducting a diatribe against a
women’s intentional choice to end a pregnancy and
thereby because it involves the taking of life.” “The
leader of the opposition stood up in parliament and firedoff a lengthy and angry diatribe about corruption and
government contracts, the like of which had never been
heard before.” *

Dicker about the price 
Bargain, argue and haggle about the price. “When I go to
the market, I don’t bargain and bicker about the price, I
just pay them what they ask for because I can’t be bothered dickering about money.” “My friend, Dr. Abdul,
told me that a gentleman of standing would never bargain
and haggle and dicker over the price of the item in an
Egyptian marketplace because it would make him loose
face.” “It always makes me feel a little ashamed when I
see foreign tourists dickering about the price of a necktie
in a tourist market place.” *

Diddle someone 
Cheat someone out of something out by over-charging
someone by using deceit and trickery. “When Pamela
found out that the maid had been diddling her on the
shopping bill every week for over a year, she immediately fired her.” “The amazing thing about this country is
the way people are always coming up with new ways of
trying to diddle one another out of a little money.” “I
would never try to diddle someone out of even the smallest sum of money, for whatever reason, especially for
just a few Baht, and I wonder why people are always trying to diddle me.” *

Didn’t pan out 
Just as people pan for gold in the bed of a river, so they
may say they invested in a business venture that didn’t
pan out. “Most of the new business ventures registered
under law soon run out of money and fail to pan out and
have to close down.” “My Mom borrowed money from
my uncle to open a Laundromat in Pattaya, and, when
her idea didn’t pan out, she had no money to pay my uncle back.” “When Mitch was younger, he opened a coffee
house, hoping he could make it a popular hangout and
make a living at the same time, but his hopes didn’t pan
out as expected.” *

Die away 
Just as the last evening light may die away in the west, so
we may say that an attitude or custom or cultural characteristic dies away in the course of time. “The cultural 
custom of showing high respect for one’s elders is unfortunately dying away.” “The idea that women are inferior
to men has gradually been dying away for centuries.”
“The custom of women bowing at the feet of their husbands at bedtime has all but died away.” *

Die down 
Settle down and become quiet. ‘There were a lot of public demonstrations in the last few weeks, but, now, things
are starting to die down.” “After the initial excitement of
the scandal, Giovanni decided to lie low for a while to let
the dust settle down and let things die down.” “There has
been a great hue and cry about government corruption,
but as usual, someone will appoint a committee to look
into the matter, and, by the time they have filed their report, the commotion will have died down.” *

Die of 
Die as a cause or result of. “You may feel devastated
your heart is broken, but you are not going to die of it.”
“Many British soldiers died of dysentery in Burma in the
Second World War.” “Increasing numbers of needleinjecting heroin addicts are dying of HIV related causes.”*

Die with your boots on 
Die like a man, while still active and working. “Cowboys
used to say they didn’t want to get old and have to retire
but would rather die with their boots on while still herding cattle.” “There used to be a lot of old gunslingers in
the wild west who would rather have died with their
boots on than in bed.” “Many laboring class workers say
they would rather die with their boots on than old and
alone in bed.” *

Die-hard 
Someone who is too conservative and old-fashioned,
who is inflexible and unwilling to change. “Some attitudes and opinions die hard, because it takes several generations for them to die out and be replaced by newer
ideas.” “There were a lot of old die-hard Nazis still living
in Germany, after the war, but eventually that generation
passed away, it was replaced by a new, younger, moreopen-minded generation” “My Dad is one of those old
die-hards who believe that women should not have the
right to vote and that their place is in the kitchen.” “Old
customs and traditions die hard, and sometimes that is a
good thing.” *

Different strokes for different folks
Not everybody likes the same things; some people like
one thing; some like another; to each-his-own, according
to his will, according to his own taste. “Some like it hot
and hard; some like it soft and gentle; that’s why we say
‘different strokes for different folks.’” “Some like gorgeous girls; some like gay boys, as they say, ‘different
strokes for different folks.’” “Everybody supposedly has
the right to do as he pleases whether everyone else agrees 
or not, according to the idiom, different strokes for different folks.” *

Dig down deep into your pockets
Give generously and be charitable. “We are asking all of
you to dig down deep into your pockets and give generous contributions to help aid the Bangladesh flood victims.” “This charity is for a deserving cause so we hope
you will all dig down deep in your pockets and donate
generously.” “We are starting a Lodge of Research and,
as there are so few founder-members, we are asking each
one of you to dig down deep in his pocket and make a
generous contribution towards this end.” *

Dig it! 
Like, appreciate, understand and really get into something having to do with the jazz or music scene or something that is considered cool. “I dig you baby. I think
you’re cool” “I just don’t dig it when a chick takes over
sexual control.” “Jazz fans used to really dig it when
Miles Davis played his trumpet standing with his back to
the audience facing towards the other musicians.” *

Dig up dirt on 
Find out some gossip; uncover something scandalous
from the past from the past that has been kept secret.
“When the Conservatives can’t think of any other way of
discrediting their opponents, they hire a private detective
to go out and dig up some dirt on him.” “Scandal magazines are always trying to dig up dirt on Hollywood stars
to appeal to the low-mindedness of their readers.” “The
press is always trying to dig up dirt on public servants
and political figures just to increase newspaper circulation.” *

Digging your own grave 
Setting up the situation for your own destruction. “When
Sam went away to college, his Mom told him to stay
away from drugs or he would be digging his own grave.”
“Don’t do it! If you go ahead with your evil intentions,
you will be digging your own grave.” “People who are
excessive in the use of addictive substances are digging
their own graves.” *

Dilly-dally 
Wasting time hanging about; dawdling along behind the
group, being slow, hesitant or indecisive. “Come on children! Hurry along the path and don’t get lost by dillydallying behind the others.” “In every tour group, there
are always a couple of people who dilly-dally behind the
rest, soothe tour guide has to keep an eye out for fear of
losing them.” “There is no time for dilly-dallying about;
we have to be packed and ready to go by ten o’clock,
when the bus leaves for the airport.” *

Dim view of 
Disapproving attitude towards something improper or
morally wrong. “The religious community takes a dim
view of increasing immorality amongst young people.”
“The religious community takes a dim view of increasing 
immorality amongst young people.” “My mother takes a
dim view of my dating someone with another skin color,
but I have told her that when you close your eyes, it all
feels the same.” “The Ambassador takes a dim view of
Embassy staff members getting drunk in The British Social Club after work, especially because it makes a bad
impression when foreign guests are present.” *

Dim-witted 
A little dull when it comes to intelligence. “John seems a
little dim-witted at times, but it is mostly the effect of the
heavy anti-anxiety drugs they are giving him.” “Some
guys marry dim-witted blondes just as an ego-boost just
to impress their friends.” “Our younger brother is a bit
dim-witted and has to go to a special school, but that
does not mean that we love him less.” *

Dime-a-dozen 
Just as in the past people used to sell ordinary items, like
eggs or cakes, for ten cents a dozen, so, nowadays, when
we want to say some things are common, in over-supply,
and easy-to-find very cheap, we use the expression
“dime-a-dozen.” “Beautiful blondes in Hollywood are a
dime a dozen.” “Lawyers are a dime-a dozen and can’t
always earn a living, but good and honest layers will always be able to find a job.” “Bar girls in Pattaya are a
dime-a-dozen and, in the off-season, they have nothing to
do but sit around and wait for the tourist season to begin
again.” *

Dirt cheap 
As cheap as dirt; for almost nothing. “You can buy goods
dirt cheap in the Thai border towns on the bordercrossings of Burma.” “A lot of European department
stores by products dirt cheap directly China rather than
from Thailand because labor and production costs here
are much higher.” “Tourists who exchange Euros in
Thailand find the prices here dirt cheap compared to
prices in their home countries.” *

Dirt poor 
A person who owns only the dirt where he farms is said
to be dirt poor. “My grandparents were dirt poor when
they started working the land here in Kansas three generations ago.” “Tom told me that although his forefathers were uneducated and dirt poor, the family can
boast of having produced two doctors one lawyer and
one judge, and architect and an engineer.” “No one ever
claim that we are uneducated and dirt poor any more.” *

Dirty deal 
An unfair transaction in which someone is cheated or
suffers an unfair advantage. “I think it is a dirty deal the
way middlemen take advantage of farmers by paying low
prices for crops and then selling them at higher prices to
make a big profit.” “It is a dirty deal the way the government is charging higher taxes but not using the money
for the advantage of the common people.” “I think it is a 
dirty deal the way I paid into my medical health-plan all
of my life, only to find out in the end that they try every
trick in the book to avoid paying for my hospital costs.”*

Dirty linen 
Just as we wouldn’t want to show our dirty laundry (or linen in public, so we have deep, dirty secrets that good
people wouldn’t want to know. “There is an old saying
that says, ‘We should not wash our dirty linen in public.”
“A married couple should discuss their problems and differences in private rather than wash their dirty linen in
public.” “It was shameful the way prince Charles and
Lady Diana washed their dirty linen in public each giving
biased interviews that were then published in the press.”*

Dirty looks 
Looking displeased; scornful; resentful. “I didn’t ask
Cynthia to the school prom thirty yeas ago and she still
gives me dirty looks whenever she sees me.” “Christopher’s ex-mother-in-law still gives him dirty looks for
the way he treated her daughter who is now his ex-wife.”
“When someone is resentful and gives other people dirty
looks, this causes more resentment and never leads to
good.” *

Disadvantaged children 
Children with no family, no means of support, no one to
take care of them, and many other disadvantages. “I like
to donate to charity to help disadvantaged children.”
“The Masonic Fraternity has done a lot of charity work
providing medical care and education for disadvantaged
children.” “The problem with men leaving their wives
and families to run-off with another woman is that this
leaves behind a lot of disadvantaged children.” *

Disappear into thin air 
Do a disappearing act so no one can catch or find you.
“The robber exited the front door of the bank and suddenly disappeared into thin air, and no body has been
able to figure out how he pulled his disappearing act.”
“My first husband withdrew all our money from the bank
and disappeared into thin air and was never heard from
again.” “The cops are onto me, so I’d better disappearing
into thin air before they catch and arrest me.” *

Disapprove of 
Take a dim view of something as being a wrong attitude
or action. “Grandmother disapproves of people displaying physical affection in public.” “Our boss disapproves
of women wearing trousers in the office because he likes
to see them in skirts and dresses.” “My Mom disapproves
of me hanging around the pool room because she thinks I
will fall into bad company, and I know she is right.” *

Disciplinary measures 
Rules of discipline being imposed on wrongdoers as an
example to encourage others to follow regulations. “The
Dean is imposing disciplinary measures against the stu-
dents who hoisted a toilet bow and placed it atop the
flagpole.” “The army has imposed disciplinary measures
against the enlisted men who imposed torture on captured, military prisoners.” “Disciplinary measures are
being undertaken by the company to punish employees
who deliberately disregard the working regulations.” *

Discriminate against 
Judge people of being inferior due to religion, caste, race,
sex or any other factor that would make them less than
equal to oneself. “One should never discriminate against
others based on race or religion.” “The employment policy used to discriminate against women, so they got paid
less than a man for doing the same job.” “In the USA, it
is against the law to show any kind of discrimination
against anyone for any reason because all people are considered as being born equal.” *

Disdainful attitude 
Scornful, derisive way of looking down on others. “The
Duchess has a disdainful attitude and looks down on
anyone not born into the aristocratic class.” “Those who
show a disdainful attitude are often just covering up an
inferiority complex.” “One should view all people as being equal and never have a disdainful attitude towards
anyone in the world.” *

Dismal end 
A miserable, unhappy final result. “I swear that boy will
meet a dismal end if he does not stop flirting with risk
and danger.” “Your life will come to a dismal end if you
do not learn balance your mind to control your desire and
anger.” “If you do not quit drinking to decrease the damage to your liver, you will surely come to a dismal end.”*

Dismal prospect 
Depressing outlook and expectation for the future. “Environmentalists are predicting a dismal prospect for the future.” “Economists are convinced that increasing bank
interest rates indicates a dismal prospect for fourth quarter earnings.” “Astrologists, scientists and pessimists are
all predicting a dismal prospect for the future.” *

Disparaging remark 
Reproachful, disapproving, belittling comment. “Colleen
is always making disparaging and hurtful remarks about
the other ladies in her social circle and making herself a
lot of enemies.” “We should always be aware that when
we are making disparaging remarks, about other people
the effects will be painful and harmful.” “When you have
the temptation to make a disparaging remark to someone,
it would be better to hold your tongue.” *

Dispense with the formalities
Skip the preliminary formal introductions. “Let’s dispense with the formalities and get straight down to business.” “Since this is an informal meeting, we can dispense with traditional formalities and get down to brainstorming right away.” “When time means money, business conferences dispense with time-wasting formalities
and go directly to the point, so team members can understand what is expected of them and get back to their
desks as quickly as possible.” *

Display of affection 
Showing love and care publicly. “In Asian cultures it is
considered improper to exhibit any public display of affection.” “In French society, people hug and kiss one another in a display of affection, as an expected part of the
culture.” “In Italian society, men hug and kiss one another in an open and genuine display of affection.” *

Disputatious person 
Argumentative individual. “People who always like to
argue and disagree are disputatious individuals.” “My
colleague Rod is a disputatious individual by nature; so I
avoid talking to him if at all possible.” “Disputatious persons are usually motivated by some kind of hidden illwill.” *

Disqualified from 
Declared ineligible or banned from participating. “Karen
Oates was disqualified from competing in the Olympics
because she failed to pass a drug test.” “One of the candidates has been disqualified from running in the public
election because he has a criminal record.” “Did you hear
the story about the girl who was disqualified from running in the Miss Universe contest because they found out
she was married?” *

Dissolute person 
Degenerate, debauched individual; someone with a dissipated way of life. “A dissolute person is one who lives an
immoral, dissipated and self-indulgent “My father was a
dissolute person who died at the age of forty-eight due to
complications arising from a combination of HIV, Virus
B and cirrhosis of the liver.” “When Dale was in his thirties, he was a drunken, debauched, dissolute person who
was headed for a dismal end, but, at forty, he stopped his
dissolute life and started meditating and later became a
catholic priest.” *

Distance yourself from 
Remain detached from; don’t get too close to. “Since Mr.
Profumo has had his latest scandal, even his oldest
friends are distancing themselves from him.”*

Distant corner of the world
A far off place, far from anywhere. “In Canada, Tasmania is considered as being in a distant corner of the
world.” “When an American soldier is posted to Sinop,
Turkey, on the Black Sea, he considers himself to be in
an isolated distant corner of the world.” “In Singapore,
Patagonia is considered as being in a far-off, distant corner of the world, but in Patagonia Singapore is considered a far-off distant corner of the world. Everything is
relative to nothing at all.” *

Distinct impression 
What seems to be a clear and obvious to the observer. “I
have the distinct impression that the witness was paid for 
lying about being with the accused on the night of the
crime.” “I have the distinct impression that Irene has got
a crush on me.” “I have the distinct impression that the
girl who sits next to me in the office dislikes me.”*

Distinguished gentleman 
Eminent, prominent, well-known gentlemen. “I would
like to thank the distinguished gentlemen on the Senatorial Advisory Committee for their worthy contributions.”
“Our next speaker is a distinguished gentleman who
taught for forty years at Chulalongkorn University and
wrote seventy research papers.” “General Prem is one of
the country’s most well-known, eminent and distinguished gentlemen.” *

Distinguishing marks 
Birthmarks or scars or such-like on a person or a corpse
that would help to identify him or it. “Danny Dade was
known to have the distinguishing marks of two black
moles, one on his right arm and another on the left side
of his neck.” “When Tim applied for his permanent resident visa, the Immigration Department asked him if he
had any distinguishing marks on his body that would
help Thai authorities to certify his identity.” “The police
were able to find out the identity of the murdered woman
when her mother recognized the distinguishing marks of
two entangled tattooed snakes located on her left and
right shoulders.” *

Disturbing the peace 
Making noise that disturbs the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood. ‘Moody got arrested last night for being
drunk and disorderly and disturbing the peace.” “My
wife tells me that if I do not stop my loud and argumentative behavior, which disturbs he peace of community,
she will divorce me.” “One, when I was a student, I was
arrested for disturbing the peace by going around campus
shouting abusive insults about the faculty and the academic community.”*

Ditch somebody 
Get rid of a person; break off the relationship; leave them
by the wayside; ditch by the roadside. “Leonine was my
girlfriend in high school for three years, but, then, after
she became Prom Queen, she suddenly ditched me.” It’s
not so easy to ditch an old friend even if he has gone to
the dogs, and may eventually do you harm through association.” “I never did like your wife and I have always
thought you should ditch the bitch.”*

Do a good turn 
Perform a good deed in the service of others. “Boy scouts
are taught to do a good turn every day.” “If you are asked
to do a good turn and you refuse to do it this creates bad
karma which will come back to you sooner or later.” “If
you see you have the chance to do a good turn by giving
a small donation, don’t hesitate to reach in your
pocket.”* 

Do an about-face 
Literally, turn to face in the opposite direction, as in military drill; figuratively, to do the opposite of what you
said you would; change your mind to the contrary; reverse your view; to change to the opposite opinion. “He
was a liberal activist when he was in his twenties, but in
later life, he did an about-face and joined the conservative right wing.” “The government did an about-face on
the tax-cut promise and it cost them the next election.”
“When she unexpectedly got pregnant, she suddenly did
an about face on her anti-abortion view.”*

Do as you are bid 
Follow orders; fulfill a command; be forced to follow
someone’s will; concede and do what you are to doe told;
do as you are asked to do; behave as requested. “Just do
as you are bid, and don’t ask any questions, and you
won’t have any problems.” “The way to get along in the
navy is just to do what you are bid and don’t make waves
or rock the boat.” “If you do not do as you are bid I will
soon find a way to get rid of you.”*

Do hand-stands 
Just as a gymnast may stand on his hands with his feet up
in the air, so we may say that we are forced to do handstands to please a person such as the boss or the client or
even a loved-one. “We are doing hand stands and bending over backwards to try to get the prospective client to
sign the agreement, but he hasn’t done so yet.” “I’ll try
my best to please you, but don’t force me to do hand
stands or I’ll just walk out on you.” “Nothing I do for my
boss is ever good enough. I could do handstands, and he
still would not approve of me.”*

Do or die 
To have to do something in order to avoid death; to destroy the enemy or be killed in the fighting; to perform an
action that will save your life; to act in such a way as to
avoid defeat or destruction. “Fight for your lives, men.
Its do or die.” “If we do not jump from the cliff down
into the pool below, the bandits approaching us from behind will kill us for sure. Its do or die.” “‘The doctor told
me to lose thirty kilos. It was a do or die situation, so I
followed his advice.” “We have to merge our company
with a joint-partner, or we will go bankrupt; Its do or
die.”*

Do someone’s bidding 
Do as requested; what you are asked; as you are told; ordered, commanded; act at someone’s behest. “I am not
your servant. Find someone else to do your bidding.” “I
hate to be forced to do someone’s bidding against my
will.” “I will do your bidding and act at your behest, as
long as you always ask me politely.”*

Do the dirty work 
Just as someone has to perform the dirty work in a
household, so we may say someone has to do the dirty
work in business or in crime. “The Mafia has hired killers to go in and do the dirty work when someone has
double-crossed them.” “Don’t ask me to fire Mr. Perkins.
Fire him yourself, I’m not going to do your dirty work.”
“Don’t ask me to beat up your neighbor. If you want to
hurt him, go over and do your own dirty work.”*

Do the legwork 
Perform the preparatory work in order to set things up for
a venture or event. “I went to Bangkok first, before my
family, to do the legwork and make all the necessary arrangements before we all moved there.” My lawyer will
have to do all the preliminary legwork and set up the
business registration before I can come into Thailand and
get a work permit.” “Let me do the preparatory legwork
and get the election campaign planned and prepared before we make the announcement that you will be running for political office.”*

Do what is expected of you.
Do your duty; perform a task as you are ordered to do;
live up to expectations; do the right thing. “In our firm, if
you do not do what is expected of you, they soon get rid
of you.” “OK boys! Get out on the field and play your
utmost best. Do what is expected of you.” “You got my
daughter pregnant, and now you must do what is expected of you and marry her.” *

Do without 
Be deprived of; have to go without. “If I don’t have milk
and sugar for my tea, I can do without.” “I do not need a
lot of luxurious things and creature comforts. I could just
as soon live in a small, simple, mountain hut and do
without.” “When we had no money to but butter to put
on our bread, we had to do without.” *

Do your level best 
Try your hardest and do the best you can.
Do your utmost! Strive as hard as you can and do your absolute best! “OK
team! Today, out on the field, I want to see you do your
utmost to win the game.” I do my utmost to try to please
my husband, but he is never satisfied.” “We have done
our utmost to try to win the election but the Conservatives have taken the day.” *

Do’s and don’ts 
The things that you should and should not do. “In society, there are a lot of do’s and don’ts that are built into a
culture.” “In being married, there are a lot of do’s and
don’ts. For example, do your best earn income to provide
food for the table and be sure you don’t forget your
wife’s birthday.” “In giving a presentation there are
many do’s and don’ts. For example do not forget to look
your audience in the eye, and do not fiddle with your
tie.”*

Dodgy deal 
Crooked, corrupt, dishonest agreement or transaction.
“Freddy Adams was arrested for some dodgy deal in
which he was laundering dirty money.” “The real estate
dealer is trying some dodgy deal in which the purchaser 
of the land will not have the right of access.” “Be careful
of doing business with the Russian Mafia. They are always trying to involve some foreign partner into a dodgy
deal.”*

Doesn’t hold water 
Not arguable or logical; unconvincing; not watertight.
“Your alibi doesn’t stand up to investigation. It doesn’t
hold water.” “The judge said that the case for the defense
didn’t hold water because it was based on hearsay evidence.” “The President’s proposed tax cut taxes for the
rich doesn’t hold water, because it will not benefit society or the people on the whole.”*

Doesn’t know the time of day
An expression meaning someone is really stupid and
doesn’t even know anything. “Don’t ask my sister about
advice about love. She doesn’t even know the time of
day.” “My boss thinks he knows everything, but between
you and me, he doesn’t even know the time of day.”
“Uncle Freddy is and total imbecile and doesn’t even
know the time of day.” *

Doesn’t know which end is up
Unintelligent; stupid; thick; dense; brainless. “You are so
stupid you don’t know which end is up.” “Our Aunt
Hilda is so confused and brainless she doesn’t even know
which end is up.” “Unfortunately our youngest son born
brain-damaged, and most of the time, he can’t even tell
you which end is up.”*

Dog eat dog world 
A world in which people behave and act primitively, like
dogs, rather than as civilized human beings; a world in
which one must eat or be eaten by one’s competitors; a
savage world of survival of the fittest where the weak die
and the strong survive. “When it comes to human nature,
I’m a pessimist: I think it’s nothing but a dog eat dog
world.” “Free enterprise is a-dog-eat-dog business, a
world in which you must succeed or be eaten-up by the
competition.” “You can’t trust anybody; it’s a dog eat
dog world, in which everyone puts his own self-interest
first and doesn’t care about anyone else.” *

Dog in the manger 
Just as a miserable dog, hanging his head, may be looking despondent because there’s no food for him, so a person can hang this head when he doesn’t get what he
wants. “When a person hangs his head looking dejected,
disappointed and reproachful, we say he looks like a dog
in a manger.” “Going around looking like a dog in a
manger just because you don’t get what you want won’t
get you anywhere.” “If you go about looking like a dog
in a manger all the time, someone will want to put you
out of your misery.” *

Dog paddle 
Just as dogs swim with their front legs, sometimes children learning to swim do the dogpaddle. “When Kenny
was four, his mother took him to the pool every morning 
and taught him how to dog paddle.” “If you cannot swim
in deep water, you can go into the shallow end of the
pool and just dogpaddle about a bit.” “Palm’s parents
always told her to stay away from the water, so she never
learned to swim and cannot even do the dog paddle.” *

Dog’s years 
For some time; quite a while; seems like for ever; as long
as I can remember; many long years; (for the normal life
span or expectancy of the family dog.) “Welcome to the
firm. I’d like you to meet your new colleague, Donald,
who has been with the company for dog’s years, so he
can tell you anything you need to know.” “It is so nice to
meet you unexpectedly in the sky-train like this. I haven’t seen you in dog’s years.” “I have been a member of
the British Club for dog’s years. For me, it’s like a home
away from home.” *

Dog-eared 
When the corners of pages of manuscripts, texts or books
have often been folded down and/or worn from use. “My
Webster’s Dictionary which I have been using since I
was a student is all dog-eared from years of use.” “The
Reverend Charles Mahoney has been using the same old
Bible for thirty years, and its pages have become dogeared from constant use.” “When Prof. Harris is using his
textbook, he folds down the corners of the pages between
lessons, instead of using a bookmark, so the pages have
become all dog-eared over the years.” *

Dogmatic opinion 
Inflexible, unbending, narrow view or attitude. “A person
with a dogmatic opinion will be very unlikely to change
his view.” “Some Bible-belt Christians have very dogmatic opinions when it comes to religious belief.” “Old
Lord Richard was an eccentric gentleman with very
dogmatic opinions, but people tolerated him because they
knew he could never change his ways.” *

Do-gooder 
Someone who is always trying to do the good, often for
the wrong reasons. “When someone wants to do good
just to make up for a sin or make a good impression, we
call him a do-gooder.” “A lot of do-gooders that you see
in society are doing the good for their own good and not
for the good of others.” “When Thoreau saw a do-gooder
coming his way, he would run away and hide.” *

Domineering manner 
Bossy, dominant, assertive, authoritarian manner. “Sophisticated aristocrats from old families seldom have a
domineering manner.” “Business tycoons with new
money often have a domineering manner.” “In the mental
hospital, there was a self-assertive nurse who had an inflated sense of her own power and a very domineering
manner and everyone was afraid of her.” *

Don’t badger me! 
Stop bothering me again and again with the same thing;
don’t bug me; drop it and leave me alone. “Don’t keep 
badgering me about buying you a new bicycle. The answer is, ‘No!’” “Stop asking me over and over again.
Don’t badger me! That’s not the way to persuade me to
do what you want.” “If you keep badgering the boss
about changing your job, he might just get annoyed
enough to fire you altogether. *

Don’t be a crybaby. 
Don’t be one of those people who cry for sympathy
every time something goes wrong.” “I know you feel
hurt, but don’t be such a crybaby just because you
dropped your candy in the mud.” “Don’t be such a crybaby just because you cannot get what you want You’ll
get over it.” “Don’t be such a cry baby. You’re not the
first person to be disappointed in love.” *

Don’t be a litterbug 
Don’t throw and scatter trash around on the street or
ground. “Don’t be a litterbug and throw your rubbish on
the ground.” “Put your plastic wrappers in the trash-can
provided and don’t be a litterbug.” “In Bangkok, you
can be fined by the police for being a litterbug, so be
careful not to drop anything on the street.” *

Don’t be a quitter. 
Don’t be one of those people who gives-up easily. “Keep
on striving and doing your best. Don’t be a quitter.” “If
you want to be a success in life, you have to keep fighting and striving right to the bitter end. Don’t be a quitter.” “Never give up! No matter how hopeless things may
sometimes seem. Don’t be a quitter.” *

Don’t be cross with me. 
Don’t be angry or annoyed or sore with me. “I’m sorry I
made a nasty remark to you. I just reacted without thinking. Please don’t be cross with me.” “I shall be very cross
with you if I catch you smoking inside my house.”
“Grandmother was very cross with Audrey for forgetting
to bring her afternoon tea and biscuits.” “Mother gets
very cross with the children when they purposely try to
get out of doing their household chores.” *

Don’t be duped. 
Don’t be fooled. “Don’t be duped into believing that you
should sell Avon products and get rich quick.” “Don’t let
yourself be duped into buying insurance that you do not
need.” “Don’t be duped into believing that the president
means to fulfill all his campaign promises.” *

Don’t be short with me. 
Do not talk curtly, abruptly, crossly with me. “Don’t be
short with me. If you give me short, sharp answers. I’ll
be even-more short with you.” “Don’t be short with me.
Can’t you see that I’m trying to help you and not to criticizing you?” “Don’t be short with me just because I tell
you the truth. It’s not my fault if you don’t like the truth,
so don’t try taking it out on me.” *

Don’t be so cranky. 
Don’t be so irritable; bed-tempered; grouchy; crabby;
cantankerous; in a bad mood and complaining all the
time. “Great Grandfather is an irritable, miserable, old 
grouch, and we keep telling him not to be so cranky or no
one will listen to him anymore.” “Don’t be so cranky or
the nurse and the doctor will avoid contact with you, and
then, where will you be?” “Aunt Angela was a badtempered, crabby old spinster, and no matter how many
times Uncle Daniel told her not to be so cranky, she
never changed her attitude or tone of voice.” *

Don’t be so miserable. 
Try not to look so unhappy all the time; life is not so bad;
cheer-up; take a more-positive attitude; nobody likes to
see a long face. “Don’t be so miserable. Why do you go
around with a hang-dog face all the time?” “Cheer-up
and smile! Don’t be so miserable. Life is not all that
bad.” “No one likes to see you looking unhappy and depressed all the time. Don’t be so miserable!” *

Don’t be so silly 
Don’t be foolish; you’ve got the wrong idea. Don’t think
I criticize you because I think you are stupid. Don’t be so
silly. I am only trying to help you.” “Whatever made you
think I don’t like you? Don’t be so silly! I love you!”
“How did you ever get the idea the other girls look down
on you? Don’t be so silly. All the girls look up to you.” *

Don’t be so snooty. 
Don’t be so stuck-up; don’t stick your nose in the air;
don’t look down on others; don’t think you are superior
to others. “My Aunt Caroline was always a bit snooty
with our family because my Uncle Arthur was a company president and earned a lot more money than my father who was just a schoolteacher.” “Don’t get so high
and snooty with me just because you live on the South
side with all the rich people.” “Don’t get snooty with me
just because you’ve got more money now. Don’t forget,
we were both born in the same neighborhood and used to
pack groceries in the same supermarket together.” *

Don’t be such a cheapskate.
Stop trying to hang onto every penny; don’t be so miserly; so tight with your money. “Charlie’s such a cheapskate that he even hates to spend money on food. He’s
always on the lookout for a free meal wherever he can
get one.” “Don’t be such a cheapskate and buy your
friends a round of drinks when it’s your turn.” “Stop
bumming other people’s cigarettes. Don’t be such a
cheapskate and buy your own for a change.” *

Don’t be such a fussbudget.
Don’t let yourself worry so much; don’t create such a
fuss over nothing; don’t be a worrywart; stop nagging
and complaining so much; don’t get so worked-up for
no-good-reason. “I’m trying not to be such a fuss-budget,
because I know that always worrying just makes things
worse.” “Karen doesn’t want to be such a fuss-budget,
but when she gets worked-up about a potential problem,
she is nothing but a bundle of nerves.” “Our mother is a
real fuss-budget and worrywart because she is always 
afraid that something bad might happen to someone in
the family.” *

Don’t be such a grouch. 
Grumbling and complaining all the time; cranky and irritable; moaning and groaning; grumpy. “Stop complaining all the time and don’t be such a grouch.” “Don’t be
such a grouch. If you grumble and groan all day long,
you’ll just make your self and others feel more miserable.” “Don’t be such a grouch when you wake up in the
morning. Rise and shine and put a smile on your face the
way that other people have to do.” *

Don’t be such a miser. 
Don’t be so unwilling to spend any money; cheap,
penny-pinching; be a cheapskate; don’t be so stingy.
“Don’t be such a miser and treat yourself to a nice expensive dinner once in a while.” “If I weren’t such a miser, I’d stay in a four star hotel, but I hate to part with my
money, so I always stay in a guesthouse.” “Uncle Stooge
was such a miser that he never once in his life gave a
penny to charity.” *

Don’t be such a pest 
Stop continually bothering me! “Don’t keep asking me
questions and butting in on my conversations. Don’t be
such a pest.” “Don’t be such a past. If you don’t stop
badgering me to take you to the movies, I’ll never take
you to the movies again.” “Don’t keep bugging me to get
the job finished. Don’t be such a pest. If you keep interrupting me like this, I’ll never get the job finished.” *

Don’t be such a sore loser.
Don’t be so resentful and angry just because you were
beaten by someone better. “When someone throws his
tennis racquet on the ground when he loses a match, his
friends will say, ‘Don’t be such a sore loser.” “Don’t be
such a sore loser. Realize that you cannot always win,
especially when you are up against a better player.” “No
body likes a sore loser because he shows a un-sportsmanlike attitude, so don’t be a sore looser.”*

Don’t be such a sour puss.
Don’t make such a long face; don’t go around with such
a sour look on your face; don’t look so unhappy, disappointed and embittered all the time. “Don’t be such a
sour puss! I hate to see that same miserable, unhappy
look on your face all the time.” “Don’t be such a sour
puss and try to smile for a change.” “Sarah, you are a real
sourpuss when you don’t get your own way. Don’t be
such a sourpuss!” *

Don’t be too hasty 
Do not act too quickly; take a moment to think before
acting impulsively. “Don’t be too hasty to judge another
until you know all the circumstances.” “Don’t be too
hasty in forming an opinion because hasty opinions often
lead to rash actions.” “Don’t be too hasty in reacting to
derogatory comments from others; stay calm and balanced and choose your words carefully.” * 

Don’t befuddle me. 
Confuse me; make me mixed-up; perplexed baffle me so
I cannot think straight; make me muddle-things-up.
“Don‘t befuddle me with a complicated explanation and
details. Just tell me in simple words.” “I get all befuddled
when I try to do too many things at once.” “Now you’ve
got me all perplexed and befuddled. I don’t know if you
are talking about things that are happening now, at the
moment, or things that have occurred in the past.” *

Don’t breathe a word 
Don’t tell anyone; keep it a secret. “If I tell you a secret,
will you promise not to breathe a word to anybody?” “I
missed my period for the second month in a row and I
am worried that I might be pregnant, but don’t breathe a
word about this to anyone.” “If I admit that I am having
an affair with Connie’s husband, will you promise me
you won’t breathe a word to anyone?” *

Don’t bug me. 
Stop bothering me. “Can’t you see I’m busy right now?
Don’t bug me! Don’t be such a pest!” “Don’t keep asking me so many questions when I am trying to concentrate on my science homework. Don’t be such a pest.”
“Stop badgering me! Don’t bug me! Get out of here and
stop pestering me with questions.” *

Don’t dawdle. 
Do not waste time; don’t just stand there hanging around
doing nothing; fooling- around. “Stop your lingering and
loitering; hurry up; get a move on. Don’t dawdle.” ‘Don’t
dawdle and wander off-track and lose direction.” “Proceed quickly and directly towards your goal and don’t
dawdle.” *

Don’t dicker about the price.
Don’t haggle/bargain/quibble/argue about the price;
don’t be mean and stingy about what you have to pay.
“When we go to the flea market, the vendor will ask
about double the price he expects to get, so try to bargain
him down to fifty-percent and be satisfied with that and
don’t dicker any further about the price.” “I always feel
embarrassed when I go to the vegetable market with my
Aunt Dolly, because of the persistent way she always
bargains and haggles and dickers about the price.” “I’ll
perform the service for ten thousand a day plus expenses.
Take it or leave it. Don’t try to dicker about the price, or
that will be the end of our conversation.” *

Don’t dilly-dally. 
Do not waste time; lose time loiter; dawdle along; hesitate in uncertainty; vacillate before acting. “Stop your
dilly-dallying about and get a move on, before I kick you
in the backside.” “Do something useful for a change and
quit your dilly-dallying about.” “Don’t dilly-dally away
your day. Kick-start yourself into action right away.” *

Don’t dwell on the past. 
Don’t keep thinking about experiences that have made
you unhappy in the past; let go of them; free yourself
from the past; live in the present and make the best of 
things. “If you dwell on the past, you will remember the
pain and feel discouraged. Forget the past and look to the
future.” “People who dwell on the past hang onto old resentments make them remain bitter so they cannot let bygones be bygones.” “Dwelling on the past is a way of
avoiding the responsibility to make the best of things in
the present, so avoid dwelling on the past.” *

Don’t get along together 
Cannot agree; are always at odds with one another; not in
harmony; unable to work together due to differences; always arguing; incompatible. “My older sister and I do
not get along together with one another because she is so
old-fashioned, and I am a modern-thinking girl.”
“Mother and father did not get along together, and within
five years of marriage, they got a divorce.” “In order to
do teamwork, the people in the group must be compatible
and be able to get along together.” *

Don’t get hyper. 
Don’t get up-tight; over-stressed; stressed-out; overlytense; overly-anxious; over-exited; hassled. “Don’t get so
hyper, Darling. Don’t react so strongly to criticism.”
“Don’t get hyper. Try to relax and release some of your
tensions, and chill-out a bit.” “I know you are sensitive,
but don’t get so hyper. Be reasonable. Try not to be hypersensitive and over-react.” *

Don’t get hysterical. 
Don’t go into a panic and lose control of yourself. “Don’t
become panic-stricken and let yourself get out of control.” “Don’t get all hysterical just because one of the ladies said you were a cheap tart.” “The atomic reactor is
emitting radiation, but don’t get hysterical. Keep calm
and just follow the prescribed safety regulations.” *

Don’t get me wrong. 
Don’t get the wrong idea and think I am against you. “I
think your intentions are doubtful, but don’t get me
wrong. That doesn’t mean I don’t trust you.” “I’m going
to give you some advice about your behavior, but don’t
get me wrong. I’m not trying to criticize you. I’m only
trying to help you.” “When I say you’d better drop your
girlfriend, don’t get me wrong. I’m only trying to suggest
you’d be you’d be better-off staying single.” *

Don’t get mushy. 
Stop talking so romantically; stop all that embarrassing
talk about love; don’t try to get too close with all that
sweet talk. “Stop talking such sweet talk. I don’t like it.”
“Don’t get mushy, or I’ll feel ashamed and embarrassed.” “I don’t like men who talk all soft and mushy. It
makes me feel self-conscious and uncomfortable.” *

Don’t get the wrong idea. 
Don’t get a false impression that something wrong is
happening; don’t think the worst and assume my intentions are bad. “Don’t get the wrong idea if I criticize you.
I’m just trying to help you.” Don’t get the wrong idea
that I am in love with you just because you give me 
money.” “I’m going to give you a little kiss on the cheek,
but don’t get the wrong idea that I’m trying to seduce
you.” *

Don’t get your dander up 
Don’t lose your temper; keep yourself composed; don’t
allow a thing to get you upset. “Lady Isabelle keeps telling Lord Gordon not to get his dander up when the servants are present, but he’s so easily irritated that he
blows a fuse whenever something goes wrong.” “Don’t
get your dander up, whatever happens in the court hearing, or it will make a negative impression on the judge
and support your wife’s claim that you are incompatible.” “Your ex-wife will be at the reception tonight with
the French Commercial Attaché, and she will probably
be doing her best to make you feel jealous, but don’t get
your dander up, or you’ll just lose face in front of everyone.” *

Don’t get your hopes up. 
Don’t be too optimistic; don’t set your hopes too high
because you may be disappointed. “You have been shortlisted for a scholarship, but don’t get your hopes up, because the other candidates all have a better GPA than
you.” “The rumor is that we may be getting a pay raise,
but don’t get your hopes up just yet because it is probably just a rumor.” “We are planning to go to Crystal
Beach on Saturday, but don’t get your hopes up just yet,
because father may have to go into the city that day.” *

Don’t get your knickers in a twist.
Don’t let yourself get worked-up over nothing; don’t get
excited unnecessarily. “Come on, Granny! Don’t get
your knickers in a twist. There’s nothing to be upset
about.” “Miss Perkins has got her knickers in a twist because Mr. Williams has called her an old maid.” “Don’t
get your knickers in a twist every time another woman
makes a catty remark about you.” *

Don’t give a hoot 
Don’t care; don’t give a damn; couldn’t care less. “I
know that Palm is ruining her life, but that is her problem. I don’t give a hoot.” “The Police have been unable
to crack down on illegal gambling, but I don’t give a
hoot.” “The government is wasting millions of dollars in
taxpayer’s money, but it’s not my problem. I don’t give a
hoot.” *

Don’t give me a hard time.
Do not be so difficult, disagreeable and hard to get along
with, when I ask you for help, cooperation or assistance.
“Don’t give me a hard time every time I ask you to help
out with the housework.” ‘Miss Perkins is giving Mr.
Williams a hard time and won’t co-operate with him to
help him get the job done.” “Why do you give me a hard
time every time I ask you for assistance? What’s wrong
with you? What makes you so hard to get along with?” *

Don’t go-off half-cocked 
Just as an old-fashioned hammer-locked pistol can fire a 
bullet if the hammer slips while being pulled back into
firing position and accidentally hits the firing pin, so a
person can suddenly fly into a rage if he is not careful to
control his temper. “Learn to control your temper and
don’t go off half-cocked every time someone makes a
nasty remark to you.” “My husband is really stressed and
edgy and goes off half-cocked every time I criticize
him.” “Dimsdale was very short-tempered and was always going off half-cocked at the slightest inclination of
an insult which was probably one of the factors that
caused his heart condition.” *

Don’t hand me that line. 
Don’t tell me that old familiar lie; don’t think I’ll fall for
that old trick; try a more original lie; I’ve heard that one
too often; you don’t think I’m going to believe that one
do you? “You say you need money to send to your sick
mother? Don’t hand me that line. I’ve heard it too often
before” “You can’t give me your homework because the
dog ate it? Don’t try and hand me that line. I won’t fall
for that one.” “Are you seriously trying to tell me that
you have never even looked at another woman before?
Don’t hand me that line. That’s what all the men say.” *

Don’t hassle me. 
Don’t irritate me; don’t annoy me; don’t bother me.
“Don’t hassle me. Don’t give me a hard time. I couldn’t
care less about your problem and I’m not going to help
you no matter how much you bug me.” “Don’t hassle me
about giving you money for charity. Don’t bother me. I
never give to charity.” “Don’t hassle me to hurry-up and
do the job right. If you hassle me too much, I won’t work
at all; I’ll stand up to you and fight.” *

Don’t hide your light under a bushel.
Don’t hide your talents. Don’t conceal you good points
due to shyness of fear of being asked to use them. “Do
not hide your talents from others just because you’re so
shy and timid.” “Don’t hide you light under a bushel just
for fear you may be asked to put them to good use.”
“Don’t hide tour light under a bushel just because you
are backward about coming forward.” *

Don’t know the first thing about it.
Don’t as me; don’t know anything about the matter.
“Don’t ask me about quantum physics. I don’t know the
first thing about it,” “Don’t ask me who stole your wallet. I don’t know the first thing about it.” “I can’t tell you
anything about the revenue code, I don’t know the first
thing about it.” *

Don’t lay a finger on me. 
Don’t touch me in any way. “I you lay even a finger on
me with the intent to do me harm, I’ll call in my two
thousand cousins to get revenge on you.” “I’m only fifteen, and if you lay a finger on me you can be charged
with attempted statuary rape.” “I’m well-connected and
well-protected, so, if you lay even a finger on me, all I 
have to do is give-the-order and get some of our boys to
break your arms.” *

Don’t let it go to your head
Become conceited; big-headed; think you’re better than
you are. “Don’t let it go to your head just because the
boss praised you for your good work. Learn to take
praise with modesty.” “You may have got the highest
GPA in our school but don’t let it go to you head because
there are much better students in much better schools
than this one.” “Don’t become swell-headed just because
you won a local beauty contest. Don’t let it go to your
head. You’re nothing but just another pretty face among
thousands.” *

Don’t let on you know. 
Keep it secret; don’t tell anybody; don’t let anybody suspect that you know. “If anyone asks you if you know
anything about my secret, don’t let on you know. OK?”
“Don’t let on you know about these dealings based on
insider-pricing or we all may go to jail.” “If you hear
people talking about the secret merger, don’t let on you
know anything about it.” *

Don’t let them get you down.
Do not let people make you discouraged, no matter what
they do to you. “I know they are giving you a hard time
in the office, but don’t let them get you down. Keep your
chin up and don’t let them see you are affected.” “The
Officials are going to ask for a lot of documents and ask
you to do a lot of running around, but don’t let them get
you down. Just give them everything they want and,
eventually, they’ll be satisfied and grant your permit.”
“People can be pretty nasty in the things that they say
and do, but don’t let them get you down because ignorance is inherent in human nature.” *

Don’t lose faith 
Remain optimistic and follow what you believe in.
“Stand up and fight for what you feel to be right, and
don’t lose faith.” “At times, life will seem meaningless
and hopeless, but don’t lose faith. This is just a temporary stage that people go through.” “Sometimes, when
you seem to be fighting for a loosing cause, don’t lose
faith. Hang right in there and keep on trying until you
succeed in the end.” *

Don’t lose your cool 
Don’t get upset by anything; ignore it; it’s not worth
bothering about; forget it; avoid confrontation; don’t react, and it won’t seem so important later. “When people
attack you verbally, keep calm and don’t lose your cool.
Words will never hurt you unless you allow them to.”
“When someone tries to hurt your feelings, don’t lose
your cool and fly off the handle and try to pay him back.”
“I know this is a humiliating situation, but don’t lose
your cool. Wait the situation out, and you will probably
see that you win in the end.” * 

Don’t lose your head Do not lose mental control of the situation; lose your
temper; get mad; go crazy; loose your cool “There is an
old saying that saying that you should not lose your head
when those about you are losing theirs.” “Whatever your
wife’s divorce lawyer may state during the trial, don’t let
yourself get angry and don’t lose your head and say
things you will regret later.” “One thing you should learn
about women is not to lose your head and react emotionally, no matter how strongly they may try to provoke
you.” *

Don’t mention it. 
Not at all; it was nothing; I was glad to do it; not even
worth to bother of speaking about. “I was glad to be of
help to you. Don’t mention it.” “You don’t have to thank
me. I am happy when I can give to you. Don’t mention
it.” “What I did for you was really nothing at all. You
needn’t bother to mention it.” *

Don’t mince words. 
Say bluntly and directly what you mean. “Middy doesn’t
mince words. He’s very blunt and to the point and says
exactly what he thinks.” “I’m not going to lead up to it
gently but be very blunt and not mix words: ‘You’re
fired!’” “I’m not going to mince words and beat aboutthe bush, so let me come directly to the point and tell you
directly that I’m very angry with you for the way you
behaved in the meeting today.” *

Don’t mind me. 
Please excuse me; pay no attention to me; just pretend
I’m not here. “Excuse me. Don’t mind me. I’m just
bringing the clients in some tea.” “Pay no attention to
me. Just carry on with your preparations while I check if
the microphones are set up correctly and don’t mind me.”
“Sorry to interrupt. Don’t mind me. I’ll just sit here quietly and you can continue your conversation as though I
was not here.” *

Don’t monkey around with me!
Don’t play me for a fool. Don’t try any of your tricks
with me. Don’t try to give me a hard time “Don’t monkey around with me. I’m not as stupid as I look.” “Don’t
monkey with me! If you try to monkey around with me,
you’ll be sorry.” “Don’t monkey with me. The last guy
who did that ended-up hanging from a tree.” *

Don’t overdo it. 
Don’t over-react, go to extremes or go to excess. “When
you make your thank-you speech, express your sincere
gratitude but don’t overdo it.” “OK go out and have a
good time with the boys, but don’t over do it. Try to stay
sober.” “Sometimes, one has to know when enough is
enough and when to stop and not to over do it.” *

Don’t patronize me. 
Don’t be condescending to me; don’t look down on me
when you speak; don’t talk down to me as though I were
your inferior. “I know you are older and perhaps even
wiser, but please don’t patronize me when you are explaining things to me.” “I’m not stupid. You don’t have
to talk down to me. Don’t patronize me. I can understand
the situation as well as you can.” “Don’t patronize me as
though you were somehow superior. Remember, I am the
one who is in line to take over your job.” *

Don’t pester me. 
Don’t bother me, annoy me , disturb me; stop bugging
me; don’t badger me; don’t keep coming back to me with
the same, silly questions and requests. “Don’t pester me
now, child. Can’t you see I’m busy?” “Don’t pester me
with all your little grievances. Don’t you see I have more
important things to think about?” “My boss has been
bugging me about getting my cost sheets completed, but
I told him not to pester me until I finished the tax returns.” *

Don’t play with me 
Don’t fool around and try to lie to me; do not deceive me
or try to manipulate my emotions. “Don’t play with me.
Don’t play me for a fool. I know exactly what you are
thinking, and you can’t fool me.” “Darling, don’t play
with me. You know how sensitive I am. Don’t say insensitive things just to play with my emotions.” “If you
think you can play with me, and take me for a fool,
you’ve got another thing coming.” *

Don’t push me. 
Don’t try to force me, pressure me, and make me act
against my will. “Don’t make demands I don’t want to
follow; because if you push me too far, I’ll resist the
pressure.” “ My parents are trying to push me to marry a
man I cannot love.” “Don’t push me to do your dirty
work, or I swear, I’ll push your face in.” *

Don’t push the panic button.
Do not be alarmed and lose self-control; don’t lose your
head when something unexpected happens. “Don’t push
the panic button the moment a scary situation arises.
Keep a calm and cool and level head so you’ll be ready
to deal with it.” “Mom always pushes the panic button
and goes into hysterics the moment any threatening situation arises.” “Our stock shares are losing value, but don’t
push the panic button just yet. If we wait the situation
out, the value might even rise above its present value.” *

Don’t push your luck 
You’ve been lucky so far but don’t go too far or luck will
turn against you. “I have not got angry with you yet, but
don’t push your luck. If you keep pestering me the way
you are, I’ll break your neck once you go too far.”
“You’ve been getting away with cheating on you exams
so far, but don’t push your luck, or one of these days, you
will get caught.” “You’ve had good success in the stock
market so far, but don’t push your luck too far or one of
these days you’ll take a beating.” *

Don’t see eye-to-eye 
Unable to agree with someone about something; not able
to see and think in the same way as the other(s); don’t 
share the same view; are not in full accord; cannot look
one another straight in the eye and see that the other
agrees with you. “My father and I never seem to see eyeto eye when it comes to political issues.” “Hunters and
pacifists do not see eye-to-eye on gun control and the
argument has been going on for years.” “My girlfriend
and I do not see eye-to-eye on the question of abortion. I
am totally against it, but she believes in free choice.” *

Don’t set yourself up for a letdown.
Do not set your hopes so high that you are sure to be disappointed. “I know you are in love with Shelia and
dreaming of marrying her, but don’t set yourself up for a
letdown, because the future is far away, and she is likely
to marry some other guy one day.” “Wanting a doctorate
and getting one are two different things. If you set your
hopes too high, you will be setting yourself up for a letdown.” “I know that you want to be a CPA more than
everything, but don’t set yourself up for a letdown because more than sixty-percent of the candidates fail to
complete the CPA cycle of exams.” *

Don’t settle for less. 
Don’t be satisfied with less than you want, expect, hope
for or demand; don’t agree unless you are treated fairly.
“Expect your husband to treat you like a lady and don’t
settle for less.” “The client expects a high professional
standard of work and will not settle for less.” “Demand a
monthly salary of 50,000 per month on your job application and, in the interview, don’t settle for less.” *

Don’t smart–mouth me! 
Don’t give me any sassy back-talk. “Father says that if I
smart-mouth him, he’ll stuff a dirty sock in my mouth.”
“If you smart-mouth me with that kind of sassy talk
again, I’ll smack your face.” “Don’t you smart-mouth
me! You’re just one of those low-class brats from the
other side of the railway tracks.” *

Don’t squeal on me. 
Don’t inform on me. Don’t tell anyone what I did.
“Don’t tell anybody I cheated on the exam. If you squeal
on me, I’ll cut off your balls.” “Don’t rat me out. Don’t
squeal on me. If the boss finds out what I did, he’ll kick
me out for sure.” “Don’t tell Mom it was me who broke
the window. If you don’t squeal on me, I’ll buy you an
ice-cream tomorrow.” *

Don’t stand a chance 
With no hope of success; no prospect of achieving the
goal; not good enough to beat the competition. “I don’t
stand a chance of winning a gold medal for Thailand in
the Summer Olympics, but if I am lucky, I may come
home with a bronze.” “You don’t stand a chance with
her. She wouldn’t even look at you. What she wants is a
big, brawny, good-looking guy.” “I don’t stand a ghost of
a chance of winning the marathon race, but I’m going to
enter and run just for the fun of it.” * 

Don’t take issue 
Do not disagree and argue about something that needn’t
really concern you. “Don’t take issue with company policy because if you do, you can guess what will happen to
you.” “I don’t take issue with the statement that women
are superior to men. Indeed, I think one good woman is
ten times better than twenty unworthy men.” “Don’t take
issue with the Prime Minister on matters of the party line.
It’s better to avoid dissention and contention and promote internal harmony.” *

Don’t take it personally. 
I have nothing against you. I’m just doing what I have to
do. “I’ve been sent to kill you. Don’t take it personally.
I’m just carrying out orders.” “Look, I’m sorry I got the
trophy instead of you, but don’t take it personally. Just
accept the fact that the best man always wins.” “I regret
to inform you that the company no longer has any need
for your services. Don’t take it personally though. It’s
just part of a cost-cutting process.” *

Don’t take my word for it.
Don’t believe me; try it yourself and see. “The body will
die in ice cold water within a few minutes, but don’t take
my word for it. Try it yourself and see.” “Meditation is
very good for your mental balance, but don’t take my
word for it. Try it yourself and see.” “Loving-kindness is
the best medicine for an angry heart, but don’t take my
word for it. Try it yourself and you will see.” *

Don’t tangle with me. 
Just as two creepers may get tangled together, so we say
two people who fight are tangling together. “Do not try
to pick a fight with me. If you try to tangle with me, you
will be sorry.” “I wouldn’t try to tangle with me if I were
you. Other men braver than you have tried and died.”
“Rule number one in this office is, ‘Remember I am the
boss and don’t tangle with me.’ If you tangle with me,
I’ll get angry, and you’ll get fired.” *

Don’t tread on anyone’s toes.
Just as you can hurt someone by stepping on his toes, so
you must be careful not to do anything that will hurt, injure or insult another to make him aggressive towards
you. “If you want to get what you wish for, without opposition, be careful not to tread on anyone’s toes.”
“When you go to work for a new company, in the beginning, it is best to be careful not to tread on anyone’s toes
to make them turn against you.” “I don’t want to tread on
anyone’s toes, but I am afraid it is my duty to tell you
that the results of your team’s research leave much to be
desired.” *

Don’t try to con me 
To swindle someone using deceit and trickery. “Do not
try to con me out of my money with some old salesman’s
trick. I recognize a con-line when I hear one.” “Don’t try
to con me that you were working late with your secretary. I know better than that.” “Don’t try and con me that 
I can double my money overnight. “If I give you my
money, you will surely disappear overnight.” *

Don’t try to put words in my mouth.
Do not claim or assume that I said or would say something that you did not hear me say. “That’s not what I
said. Don’t try to put words in my mouth.” “I did not say
what you quote me as saying. Don’t try to put words in
my mouth.” “Don’t ask me questions that try to put
words in my mouth. I’m too experienced to fall for that
old journalist trick.” *

Don’t wait up for me 
Go to sleep before I come home. Don’t wait until I get
back home before you can sleep. “Don’t wait up for me.
I’ll be coming in late, so you go to bed early and get
some rest.” “I’m going out partying and will probably be
out all night, so don’t wait up for me.” “I’ll be working
very late in the office tonight, Darling, and I don’t know
when I’ll be coming home, so don’t wait up for me.” *

Donkey’s years 
For a long time; for ages. “I haven’t seen my brother Bob
in donkeys’ years.” “It was good of you to come to father’s funeral. We haven’t seen one another in donkey’s
years.” “This is the first time I’ve been back to the British Club in donkey’s years.” *

Doodling away the time 
Just as we doodle, drawing circles on paper with nothing
else or nothing better to do, so we may say we doodle
away the time doing nothing useful. “I hate just sitting at
my desk waiting for the phone to ring, doodling away the
time all day.” “Tina has been doodling away the time sitting around home waiting for a telephone call for a job
interview that never comes.” “The old skippers down in
the yacht club never take their boats out any more and
just doodle away the time staring out at the sea all day.”*

Dose of your own medicine
Getting your own back; being bad to people so people
are bad to you in turn; getting what you deserve.. “Don’t
speak angrily to people, or you will surely get a dose of
your own medicine back.” “I hope that Sgt. Campbell
one day gets a dose of his own medicine and gets the
chewing out of his life.” “A man who cheats on his wife
never expects she might one day give him a dose of his
own medicine.” *

Double standards 
An unfair situation in which one standard applies to one
group and another standard to another. “Women in the
workplace have been complaining about double standards for the last fifty years.” “Thai and foreign teachers
should be paid exactly the same wage. It is unfair to follow a double standard in which foreigners get more.”
“For a long time in America there was a double standard,
in which black Americans were discriminated against
unfairly, but, now, there are supposed to be equal opportunities in the workplace.” *

Double talk 
Trying to talk your way out of a situation by speaking
lying nonsense. “Don’t give me any of your double talk.
I won’t listen to any fake excuses. I know you are as
guilty as sin.” “My husband’s always trying to give me a
lot of double talk about why we have so little available
money, but I know that he loses a lot through gambling.”
“I tried to double talk my way out of the situation, but the
teacher wouldn’t listen to anything I had to say and suspended me from school for two days." *

Double trouble 
The cause of big trouble. “Oh! Oh! Here comes double
trouble! That’s Dale Wallace coming. He’s the boy that
the teachers call the terror of the tenth grade.” “Watch
out that you don’t say anything wrong to that big Scotsman at the bar. He’s double trouble and would as soon
squash your head in as look at you.” “Sylvana Slaymore
has always been double trouble to any man who came
near her starting from the age of fourteen.” *

Double-dealing 
The deceitful and underhanded cheating way someone
talks, behaves, and does business. “I hate these doubledealing real estate developers who promise one thing in
the beginning and come up with a different one in the
end.” “Don’t trust old Cromwell. He’s double talking,
double-dealing, lying, cheating crook if I ever saw one.”
“Don’t listen to anything a politician says during an election campaign. They’re all nothing but a bunch of double-talking, double-dealing, low-down, dirty, rotten, lying bastards.” *

Double-life 
Living two lives at once. “To be a good spy, you have to
be trained in living a double life.” “When I was younger,
I used to lead a double life: in the daytime, I was a respectable lawyer, but at night I was always out on the
prowl drinking and chasing women.” “Some closet queen
men live a double life, seeming to be regular guys at
work during the day but wearing scanty, ladies’ clothing
at night.” *

Double-your-money 
Increase you money by one hundred percent. “Eileen put
her savings into an offshore investment scheme and doubled-her-money within nine months.” “My stock broker
guarantees that if I invest one million now, I can double
my money within one year. Can you believe that?”
“Normally, anyone who promises you that you can double your money by entrusting it to him is just a scam artist.” *

Down at the heel 
Just as an old pair of shoes gets worn down at the heels,
so we say a person is looking down at the heel when he
looks poor and shabbily dressed in comparison to former
times. “Perkins used to be the best-dressed man in town 
when he was wealthy, but now that he’s broke he’s starting to look a little down at the heel.” “After the Duke lost
his money in the stock market, he came down in the
world and began looking down at the heel in comparison
to former days.” “In Venice, one can often spot old aristocrats who are trying to keep up appearances despite
having lost their wealth, from the way they look a tiny bit
shabby and down at the heel.” *

Down on my luck 
Things are no going too well for me at the moment; I’m
going through a state ill-fortune, ill-fate; I’ve had a spell
of bad luck, but I hope to change that soon. “The Prince
has been a bit down on his luck, since his stock shares
took such a nose dive on Black Thursday but now he’s
on his way to a slow recovery.” “I’ve been down on my
luck since I lost my job and then my wife, but things are
looking up.” “Igor was a bit down on his luck when the
marketing boom went flat, but prospects are looking better for him now that he is getting government loans.” *

Down side 
The opposite of the good side; something that accompanies a good thing that is not so good. “It’s good to have
such a highly-paid job, but the downside is that you have
to work under stress and pressure.” “The downside of
being married to a beautiful woman is that other guys are
trying to steal her all the time.” “It’s great living in a
country where the sun shines all year long, but the downside is that it often gets too darned hot.” *

Down the drain 
Just as water flows down the drain, so we may say that
all our efforts were for nothing and went down the drain.
“I invested five-hundred thousand in a chicken farm, and
after the outbreak of chicken virus came, all my money
went down the drain.” “After the Baht devaluation, a lot
of time and investment went down the drain, and it took
years for the economy to recover.” “After our divorce, all
the time and effort and money I spent trying to have a
happy home and marriage went down the drain, and I
almost went insane.” *

Down the line 
Later on after time has passed. “High government overspending now means that someone down the line is going
to have to pay for it sooner or later.” “Somewhere, down
the line, the world will run out of energy if drastic measures are not made to conserve it.” “Somewhere, down the
line, there will be a great epidemic that kills half the people in the world, and that will be nature’s way of solving
the overpopulation problem.” *

Down the tubes 
A total loss in which everything was invested and done
for nothing. “We had great plans for our research project,
but everything went down the tubes when we couldn’t
get continued-funding.” “All my hopes and dreams for 
success went down the tubes when the price of oil increased and my operating costs ran sky high.” “My
dreams of studying chemical engineering went down the
tubes when my grade point average went down to 2.0.” *

Down-and-out 
Homeless, penniless and destitute. “He used to be a big
time real estate dealer, but now, he’s down and out without a penny to his name.” “When I was popular, everybody loved me, but now that I’m down and out I haven’t
got even one friend left in the world.” “When I was
studying abroad, I found myself, more than once, down
and out and penniless with nothing to eat and nowhere to
sleep.” *

Down-hearted 
Depressed; feeling downcast and disappointed. “Sometimes I feel so down-hearted and alone I curse the day I
was born.” “When you are alone and feeling blue, don’t
be down-hearted. Just wait a while and maybe your wildest dreams will come true.” “No one in the office looked
at or talked to me for weeks, and I felt so lonely and
downhearted I was about ready to cry.” *

Down-in-the-dumps 
Depressed; sad; miserable; unhappy; despondent; dejected; disheartened “Claude is feeling down-in-thedumps because he failed his civil service examination.”
“Young people often feel dejected and down-in-thedumps because they have no idea where their lives will
lead them.” “When I am feeling alone and miserable and
down-in-the-dumps, I always call my mother on the telephone and talk to her until I feel better.” *

Down-in-the-mouth 
Looking sad and unhappy, and miserable, discouraged
and disappointed about failure to realize wishes or desires. “You are looking so down-in-the-mouth recently.
What has happened to make you so miserable?” “I have
days when I am on top of the world, and I have days
when I am feeling down-in-the-mouth.” “If you go
around looking down-in-the-mouth and miserable,
maybe, someday, someone will want put you out of your
misery” *

Down-to-earth 
Ordinary, everyday, common; open and relaxed in behavior; the way that people naturally and normally act;
not pretending to be more than they are. “I’m voting for
Dixon for President because he seems to be so down-toearth and caring for the common man” “Despite his great
wealth, Howard Hughes enjoyed the same common,
down-to-earth pleasures of every man.” “I like farmers
better than big city folks, because farmers are more
down-to-earth and close to nature.” *

Down-trodden 
Subjugated; oppressed; exploited; taken advantage of.
“Just as blades of grass may be down-trodden from people walking on them, so we can say people are downtrodden when they have no power to stop people in
power from walking all over them.” “There was a time in
history when almost everyone but the noble class was
oppressed and down-trodden.” “There was a time in the
early part of the twentieth century when factory laborers
felt oppressed and down-trodden, but when trade unions
began to spring up, and the laboring class finally began
to get a fair shake, living standards across the nation improved for the better.” *

Dozing-off 
Nodding off to sleep; on the point of falling asleep. “Often when I am just dozing off to sleep my mind wanders
over the events of the day.” “When I am teaching, I often
notice a student dozing-off to sleep and wonder if it is
because my lecture is boring.” “After Bud has had a big
lunch with a glass of beer, he sometimes catches himself
dozing-off to sleep at desk in his office.” *

Drag someone over the coals
Give someone a good grilling or questioning. “Sharon’s
mother gave her a good dragging over the coals about
exactly what had happened during her date with Slick.”
“The Senate panel called in the director of the CIA and
gave him a good dragging over the coals about the
agency’s covert operations in South America.” “After the
Enron scandal, the government dragged the auditor over
the coals with questioning until everything finally became transparent.” *

Drained- of energy 
Lost all power; worked so hard, so one has no more
physical power left to do anything. “Just as water runs
down the drain, so we can say we are drained of energy
when all our power is gone.” “I find I’m drained of emotion and drained of energy whenever I have a fight with
my wife.” “By the time grandfather has walked to the
post office and back, he is drained of energy and has to
sit in his armchair for half an hour before he can climb
upstairs.” *

Drastic measures 
Drastic action taken in the face of dire circumstances.
“The government has been forced to take drastic measures to heighten security against terrorist acts.” “Drastic
measures had to be undertaken to control the flow of
drugs from the Golden Triangle.” “If drastic measures
are not taken to prop-up the Thai Baht, we will soon be
facing yet currency devaluation.” *

Draw the line at 
Avoid acting below a certain moral line or limit in the
things that you will do. “It is natural to be attracted to the
opposite sex, but one should draw the line at using someone else’s body for one’s own personal satisfaction.”
“It’s necessary to make a profit in business, but one
should draw a line at doing anything that is in any way
harmful to others.” “There is almost anything Sadie 
would do for money, but she draws the line being involved in corrupting other young women.”*

Drawn out 
Long and extended in time, as if it will never end. “Yesterday, there was a long, drawn-out debate in Parliament
that lasted until after midnight.” “The conflict between
the Israelis and its Arab neighbors has been going on and
drawn out for so long that few can remember when it
started.” “There was a long, drawn out argument in Flanagan’s pub Friday night about whether the English
should get out of Northern Ireland.” *

Drawn towards someone 
Attracted to a person due to his/her looks or some irresistible power. “Have you ever seen someone for the first
time and suddenly been drawn towards him, as though
there were some common bond between you?” “Sometimes, people are drawn towards one another because
they have had links in previous lives.” “Just as magnetic
shavings are attracted to one another, that’s how I feel
when I am attracted to you.” *

Dream-come-true 
Having what you always hoped for happen in the way
you always imagined. “Winning a hundred-million dollars in the lottery is a dream-come-true.” “If I could
marry you, it would be a dream-come-true.” “Retiring to
a Villa on the French Riviera is a dream-come-true. I
could not have wished for anything better.” *

Dream-up something 
Imagine; fantasize; invent; devise; formulate; come up
with. “I don’t know yet how we are going to solve the
problem, but I’m sure we’ll dream up something at the
last moment.” “I don’t know how we are going to lie our
way out of this situation, but we will dream up something.” “The Republicans are not sure how to think their
way out of the upcoming recession, but they will surely
dream up something.” *

Dredge up old memories 
Just as a machine can dredge up muck from the bottom
of a canal, so a person may dredge up bad memories for
which he still blames others for something that they have
done to him in the past. “Whenever I argue with wife,
she keeps dredging up old memories, like the way I disappointed her on our wedding night.” “I wish you would
stop dredging up all the negative things that have happened in the past and look on the positive side for once.”
“Whenever I fall into a reverie of recollections of things
past, I find myself dredging up old family memories that
cause me pain.” *

Drenched to the skin 
Soaking wet from the rain. “We ran from the boathouse
to the clubhouse in the pouring rain, and by the time we
got there, we were soaking wet and drenched to the
skin.” “In S.E. Asia, people are often caught in tropical
rainstorms without much warning and get totally 
drenched to the skin.” “Sometimes. I go jogging in Central Park in the pouring rain until I’m absolutely
drenched to the skin, and then I run back home to my
apartment and jump into a hot shower.” *

Dressed-to-kill 
Describes a woman all dolled-up and looking beautiful,
all dressed-up and ready to go out somewhere where men
might even fight over her. “When she was last seen alive,
she was dressed-to-kill and seen getting into a black limousine in front of the Biltmore Hotel.” “She had the
strange habit of getting all dressed-up, fit to kill for, and
going downtown in a taxi and doing her rounds of the
bars.” “I was seven years old, the last time I saw my
mother. She was all dressed-up and fit-to-kill and on her
way to the train station.” *

Dressing-down 
Scolding; tongue-lashing; telling-off; reprimand. Major
Naylor was fond of giving his subordinate officers a
dressing-down whenever they made a mistake.” “I got a
good dressing down for forgetting to lock the safe when I
went home from work.” “At the meeting, our senior partner gave the whole management team a good dressingdown for failing to adhere to generally accepted accounting procedures.” *
Drift away Be carried away from the topic by thoughts and fantasies;
become lost in your imagination. “During the lecture, my
thoughts drifted away to happy memories of my childhood.” “Often, when I am sitting at a table with my
friends my thoughts drift away from the conversation and
go to far-off places.” “At night when I go to bed, I drift
away into a stream of consciousness while drifting away
into sleep.” *

Drift of the argument 
The point that the argument is trying to make; the intended direction of thought; the logical thread of development. “I don’t get the drift of your argument. I can’t
see where you are going or what point you are trying to
make?” “I could see the drift of Ted’s argument right
away, because I suspected his hidden purpose and intention.” “If you could speak more logically and coherently,
maybe I could get the drift of your argument.” *

Drill with questions 
Interrogate intensively. “The police drilled the suspect
with intensive questioning for five hours before he finally gave up resistance and told the truth.” “Sometimes,
they drill suspected terrorists all day every day for a year
until they finally tell what they know.” “Whenever I
come home late at night, my wife drills me with questions based on silly fears I have been unfaithful to her.” *

Drink it in 
To enjoy something so much it’s as if you had a greedy
thirst for it. “When Martin is able to gain the admiration
of others, he just loves to drink it in.” “I love to drive up 
into the mountains and drink in the scenery.” “Some big
stars enjoy the adulation they get from their audience and
they just drink it in as a source of energy for giving a
good performance.” 

Drink like a fish 
Be an alcoholic “Someone who drinks like a fish cannot
stop drinking and becomes an alcoholic.” “My Uncle
Charlie drank like a fish and died if cirrhoses of the
liver.” “If you drink like a fish, your very last wish before death will be just one more quick shot of whiskey.”*

Drinking binge 
An extended period of non-stop drinking. “Our Aunt
Jane was an alcoholic who, if she started with just one
drink, would then go on a five-day non-stop drinking
binge.” “If a true alcoholic even so mush as touches even
one drop of liquor, he is likely to go on a drinking binge
that will last until he has no availability to alcohol.”
“When I was younger, every weekend I used to go on a
drinking binge.” *

Drip-dry 
Material that can be washed and dried which does not
need ironing. “Clothing that you can wash and hang up to
dry but don’t have to iron is called wash and wear.” “All
my shirts and trousers are wash and wear and drip dry so
they do not have to be ironed.” “Now that I don’t have an
iron or an ironing board, I have to buy wash and wear
clothing.” *

Drive a hard bargain 
Just as one may barter and bargain to seek one’s own advantage and not compromise with the needs of another,
so we may say that in personal relations one person is
unwilling to compromise and forces the other to do what
he wants. “Murray usually drives such a hard bargain
that it is hardly worth negotiating with him.” “Andrew
drove such a hard bargain about buying my car that I
finally just gave it away to a charity organization.” “Pom
drives such a hard bargain when bartering with me that if
I gave in to her price, I would be losing money.”*

Drive a wedge between 
Just as we can drive a wedge into a crack between two
pieces of wood to break them apart, so we may be said to
drive a wedge between two people or parties when we
want them to separate them or disagree. “Uncontrolled
jealousy caused by both the brothers being attracted to a
woman called Mauve has driven a wedge between their
otherwise life-lasting bonds of loyalty.” “They have
drawn an independent liberal candidate into the election
to drive a wedge between the Conservatives and the Democrats.” “Disagreements on social welfare benefits
have driven a wedge between the socialist and communist members of Parliament.”*

Drive home the idea 
Stress the point until you get it into the head of another 
person. “The teacher is trying to drive home the idea that
paragraphs must have unity and coherence, but no one
wants to do it that way.” “I keep repeating myself to
drive home the idea that unless you learn to be responsible for yourself, no one will want to be responsible for
you.” “The management is trying to drive home the idea
that across-the-board cost-cutting will decrease the number of jobs that will be cut.” *

Drive to drink 
To exert such mental strain on someone that he turns to
drinking as a way of escape. “You are such a nasty bitch.
You are enough to drive a man to drink.” “My job id so
stressful that it is enough to drive a man to drink.” “Captain Cooper was so strict a disciplinarian with his wife
that he drove the poor woman to drink.” *

Drives me buggy 
Makes me irritated; gets on my nerves; makes me feel
crazy; drives me mad; drives me to distraction. “We’ve
got this woman, near me, in the office who speaks in an
off-key, monotone all day long, and the sound of her
voice is driving me buggy.” “I wish you would stop always tapping your fingers on the meeting-room table. It’s
starting to drive me buggy.” “Those teenagers next door
are always playing their rock music at full volume, and
it’s really driving me buggy.” *

Driving me mad 
Driving me crazy. “All that noise in the office is driving
me mad, and I cannot think or concentrate anymore.”
“All the backstabbing and infighting in my working environment is beginning to drive me mad.” “Listening to
your constant complaining is starting to drive me mad
and I’m about to go around the bend.” *

Driving me to distraction 
Driving me crazy, so I can’t think clearly anymore; can’t
focus my mind; returning to the same disturbing thought
so I can no longer concentrate. “Thinking about our divorce is driving me to distraction: I feel like I’m starting
to go crazy.” “My financial situation is driving me to distraction, and I just don’t know what to do any more.” *
Driving me wild Making me over-excited and about to lose control “Don’t
touch me like that. You’re driving me wild.” “All the
noise and commotion in the Casino is starting to drive
me wild.” “It’s driving me wild the way my neighbors
drink and shout all night and throw and smash their
empty bottles on the road.” *

Drizzling rain 
Fine, lightly-falling drizzling rain. “When the rain is so
soft and light that you can hardly feel or see it, we call
this drizzling rain.” “Sometimes, I like to take a walk in
very fine drizzling rain, all the way to the outskirts of
town and back again.” “When there is only a light drizzling rain, it is still possible to finish a football game
without having to call it off due to the weather.” *

Drone-on-and-on 
Continue talking on in the same mono-tone voice. “I hate
it when a lecturer just reads from the page and drones on
and on for an hour in the same monotone.” “The boss is
always droning on and on about company procedures to
the point that no one listens any more.” “Will you please
shut-up and stop droning on and on about your grievances.” *

Drool over 
Just as a dog drools when it sees something it wants to
eat, so a person may be said to be drooling over the sight
of some object of desire that he wants. “Caroline was so
pretty that you could actually see the men drooling over
her.” “The girls were standing in front of the ice cream
shop drooling over the picture on the poster of a butterscotch-cream Sunday.” “As Mike Johnson was driving
home, he was drooling over the idea of going back and
grilling himself a big T-bone steak.” *

Drop by sometime 
Come by my house and visit me when you can. “If you
are ever in my neighborhood, drop by sometime. I’d like
to see you.” “Sometime, I’d like to drop by your place
and see your stamp collection.” “Although the English
are in the habit of saying, ‘Drop by sometime if you are
ever in my neighborhood,’ but they seldom really mean
it.” *

Drop everything! 
Stop whatever you are doing right now! “Drop everything and rush to the warehouse to help us put out the
fire.” “Drop everything, right this moment, and get yourselves down to the vice president’s office!” “Drop everything you are doing right now and try to get to the NTSC
audit report out by the end of the day!” *

Drop in on 
Stop by and visit without notice. “If you are ever in my
neighborhood, drop on in me and say hello.” “If you are
ever over my way, do drop in on me.” “Nobody ever informally just drops in on me without previous notice.” *

Drop in the bucket 
Very little compared to the overall whole; a drop in the
ocean “A million here or there is a drop in the bucket to
the American Foreign aid program.” “What the government is spending on foreign aid is just a drop in the
bucket compared to its military spending.” “What Mario
spends on women is just a drop in the bucket compared
to huge amounts he loses on gambling.” *

Drop me a line 
Don’t forget to write to me. “I hope you enjoyed visiting
with me here. When you get home, don’t forget to drop
me a line.” “It was good spending the holiday with you.
When you get home, drop me a line.” “When you get to
Hollywood, don’t forget to drop me a line or send a postcard.” *

Drop me off 
Give me a lift and let me out at. “John is going to take
me in his car out to the main road and drop me off at the 
bus stop.” “Can you drive me out to the junction and
drop me off at the subway station?” “Sally is going to
ride in the car with Dad when he goes into town, and he
will drop her off at school.” *

Drop of a hat 
Instantly; in the time that it takes one’s hat to drop to the
floor. “Just give us the word when you want the job
done, and we’ll have it finished at the drop of a hat.”
“The emergency bomb squad is ready to be operational at
the drop of a hat.” “Just give me a call when ever you
need me, and I’ll be by your side at the drop of a hat.” *

Drop the ball 
Just as in sports, a player can drop the ball so his team
can’t continue moving towards the goal, so, in a teamwork situation, a member of the group may fail to fulfill
his part properly and let the rest of the team down. “In
last year’s Football League championship game, Collie
Collins dropped the ball just before he crossed the goal
line, and it was recovered by a member of the opposing
team.” “Michael Mullins has dropped the ball and failed
in his attempt to secure the ARC contract for our firm,
and it’s going to cost him his job.” “In our third year
term project, Ron Rogers dropped the ball and failed to
do his part, so our group could not get the work handedin on time.” *

Drop the subject 
Change the topic and start talking about something else.
“Drop the subject, will you? I’m tired of hearing about
it.” “This is an unpleasant topic, and I would prefer that
you drop the subject and talk about something else.”
“Let’s drop the subject. If we continue talking about it,
someone’s feelings may get hurt.” *

Drop-out of 
Fail in the attempt; have to dropout of school, the race or
the running. “Steven had to drop out of the running in the
marathon race due to a pulled tendon.” “The thirdranking candidate has dropped out of the political race
for lack of campaign funds.” “The Lotus Racing team
has dropped out of the running due to technical problems.” *

Drown in self-pity 
Feel so sorry for yourself that you are almost drowning
in your own tears. “When my brother Ike was thirteen, he
felt very sorry for myself and was almost drowning in
self pity, but it was just a stage he was going through.”
“Since her divorce, Aunt Eileen has been down-in-thedumps and drowning in self pity.” “My parents died
when I was very young, and I spent a while drowning in
self-pity, but, after a while, I found that I could learn to
stand on my own two feet without any help.” *

Drown your sorrows 
Drink a lot of alcohol to forget your pain. “It is not going
to help you feel better to drown your sorrows in alcohol.”
“When Horst was going through his divorce, he spent 
months trying to drown his sorrows by getting drunk
every night.” “You cannot drown your sorrows with
drink because when you sober up they will still be there
again.” *

Drum-up support 
Go out and talk to people or parties to arouse and enlist
their support. “Just as a marching band led by a big drum
may try to get public attention to support some cause, so
we may say we go out amongst our friends and try to
drum up support for some idea or plan of ours.” “The
City Council is trying to drum up public support to collect money for a home for orphaned children and so far
the response has been good.” “The democratic cause has
been trying to drum up support to run senator Kennedy
for President, but so fat they are getting only weak response.” *

Drunken debauchery 
Drunken, dissolute, decadent behavior. “After wasting
my youth in drunken debauchery, I finally got serious at
the age of thirty-five and straightened out my life.” “Father said he was not going to leave me any money in his
will because I would only have wasted it on a life of
drunken debauchery, and he was right.” “A life of
drunken, dissolute debauchery clouds the mind with ignorance and obscures the path to purity and wisdom.” *

Dry-up 
Be quiet; don’t say another word and act as if you are not
even there. “If you don’t dry up and stop your complaining, I’ll stuff a sock in your mouth.” “Dry up and blow
away. Nobody here wants to hear what you have to say.”
“If you don’t dry up and stop your yammering, I’ll give
you a hammering.” *

Dutch treat 
Share the cost equally; one pays half and so does the
other. “When I used to go out with Barbara to the movies
and for ice cream afterwards, she always insisted that we
go Dutch treat.” “What Americans call ‘Dutch treat’ is
what Thai’s call ‘American share.’” “In Sweden, everything is so expensive that couples often go out to drink
and eat Dutch treat.” *

Dwindling resources 
Declining assets; running low on money and assets. “Due
to dwindling financial resources, the city council has had
to postpone building a new city hall until they find new
sources of funds.” “Dwindling local energy resources
have mad it necessary to tap power networks and import
energy from power stations as far away as Canada.”
“Dwindling supplies and oil resources have driven up the
cost of fuel products worldwide.” *

Dyed-in-the-wool 
Totally convinced, loyal follower of a cause or party,
who would never change. “My father was a dyed-in-thewool conservative and voted Conservative all of his life.”
“Lord Elgin was a dyed-in-the-wool Freemason who 
served as Grand Master for over thirty years.” “It is hard
to get a dyed-in-the-wool left-wing socialist to change
his mind.” *

Dying for a chance 
Would do anything to get the opportunity; waiting in anticipation for a chance. “I’m dying for a chance to drive
over the new suspension bridge when it is finally finished.” “Claude is dying for a chance to address the audience because he enjoys getting people’s attention.” “I’m
dying for a chance to punch Sgt. Campbell in the nose,
but I know I’ll never get it because there are hundreds of
people already in line ahead of me.” *

Dying for a drink 
Very, very thirsty. “Now that we have walked out of the
desert, let’s find the nearest pub. I’m dying for a drink.”
“By the time old Bertie O’Leary had sat through the
Sunday Church Service and listened to the Sermon, he
was dying for a drink.” “An alcoholic who goes to a dry
party and is dying for a drink will often excuse himself
and say he is going out for a few minutes to get some
cigarettes when actually he’s going for a drink.” *

Dying to know 
Very interested in knowing; curious; nosey; eager to
learn. “I’m dying to know if Betty is having a sexual relationship with Hector.” “My mother is dying to know if
I will finally settle down and get married to Chester.”
“For that matter, I’m dying to know whether Chester is
really interested in me or just wants to be friends.” *

Dying wish 
Last wish made on the deathbed before the moment of
death. “Caroline’s father’s dying wish was that she get
married and have children.” “My mother’s dying wish
was that I never get married or have children, but, instead, become a Buddhist nun.” “My dying wish would
be to pass through the pearly gates and live as an angel
for eternity.” *

Dynamo of energy 
A person who generates a lot of energy to motivate others and get the job done. “Our team leader, Erica, is a
dynamo of energy, who stimulates us to work with power
and determination.” “Detroit’s fullback, Billy Bullock, is
a dynamo of energy, who can always be counted on to
lead his team to victory.” “In his earlier campaign years,
Tony Blair was a dynamo of energy who never let-up in
his efforts to promote the cause of the Labour party.” * 

Each man for himself 
Everyone look out for himself with no help from anyone
else. “It’s a dog-eat-dog world in which each man must
look after himself.” “Competition in the IT business is so
fierce; it becomes a relentless struggle to keep ahead of
the other guy. It’s a war in which it is each man for himself.” “There once was a battle fought between two armies in Ancient Greece in the middle of a night that was
so dark one could not see who was on one side and who
was on the other, so it became a fight of each man for
himself.” *

Each to his own 
Everyone has the right to his own taste, opinion or
choice. “Everyone should have the right to his own opinion: to each his own.” “I always say to let others do what
they like, to each his own, because each person is going
to have a different way of viewing things.” “Some like
Indian Yoga, some like Buddhist meditation. People
should be allowed to practice each to his own preference.” *

Eagar beaver 
Someone who works and tries hard with all his heart.
‘That new, young gardener we hired is a real, eager beaver. Not only does he work from dawn to dusk, but he
also comes up with a lot of creative and innovative ideas
of his own.” “Our daughter, Mary Jane, is such an eager
beaver that in addition to getting straight ‘A’s in school,
she serves as editor of the school magazine and stars in
the annual musical show.” “My new, young sales manager is a real, young eager beaver. Sales have increased
forty percent in the last two quarters, and I am thinking
I’d better offer him a partnership in my business before
he resigns and starts up a business of his own.” *

Eagle-eyed 
With eyes as sharp as those of an eagle. ‘Our supervisor
sees and knows everything that is going on in the office.
She is eagle-eyed and all-knowing.” “There is always an
eagle-eyed hotel detective somewhere in the lobby keeping an eye out for anything that looks suspicious. “Presidential security agents are trained to be eagle-eyed and
aware of everything that is going on in the field of perception, even down into the smallest detail.” *

Early bird 
Someone who gets up early in the morning before the
others and has the first opportunity before others get
there. “Someone in the habit of rising early is called an
early bird.” “Benjamin Franklin coined the phrase, ‘The
early bird catches the worm.’” “I am not a night owl who 
likes to stay up late; I am an early bird who wakes before
dawn to get the jump on everyone.” *

Early grave 
Death before expected. “My father was an alcoholic who
drank himself into an early grave.” Our younger brother
sadly went to an early grave due to complications of
heart-valve failure.” “My mother always used to say that
her children’s bad behavior would drive her to an early
grave.” *

Early memories 
Early experiences; first recollections of experiences in
childhood. “Early memories can be both, happy and sad;
my early memories were mostly bad.” “One of my early
memories was rolling a big snowball with my brother
until it got so big we couldn’t roll it anymore.” “Psychologists claim that early experiences and childhood
memories are factors determining our later behavior patterns.” *

Ear-marked 
Just as we can fold over the top corner of a page in a
book so we can come back to it, so we may say that a
person is earmarked or designated for some later job or
position. “My older brother is already earmarked to become the head of our father’s business empire.” “It has
always been a tradition in our family for the last son to
become a monk, so our youngest brother is already earmarked to become a monk.” “The Country Managing
Partner is already ear-marked to become the Asian Regional Director when the present one steps down.” *

Earn your keep 
Make money to live on; to support yourself; work hard
enough so that the man-in-charge will know you are
worth the money he is paying you and therefore want to
keep you on the job. “On my father’s farm, we all had to
work hard to earn our keep.” “Benjamin Franklin earned
his keep as a young man setting type in a print shop.”
“Work diligently to earn your keep never let the boss
catch you asleep.” *

Ears burning 
There is a saying that when people are talking about you,
you will feel your ears burning. “Where your ears burning about eight o’clock last night when we were talking
about you?” “Yesterday at five pm while I was riding in
a taxi, I could feel my ears burning, and I got the sense
that you guys were gossiping about me about me. Is that
true?” “If your ears were burning this morning, it was
because we were discussing why you missed the Monday
morning meeting and whether we should continue to
keep you on the job or fire you.” *

Earthly desires 
Worldly sensual cravings. “Man is tied to earth as if by
gravity by earthly desires and cravings.” “The reason advertising is so successful is that it appeals to our earthly
desires.” “One day, I hope to be able to break the bond 
of earthly desires and finally be free.”
Earth-shattering Earthshaking; as though it was the end of the world; devastating, shocking and overwhelming. “I do not believe
that any earth-shattering geological event, like an earthquake, is going to take place in Bangkok in the next few
years.” “The Prime Minister does not consider a vote of
no confidence an earth-shattering event because he
knows he can win the next election. “The effects of the
Baht devaluation were earth-shattering to most of the industries that were making big money during the economic bubble period.” *

Ease someone into something
Start off slowly at a new activity and work one’s way
into it until one gets used to doing it. “Don’t start jogging
by running ten kilometers a day. Start slowly and ease
yourself gradually into it, beginning with short distances
and then increasing them a little bit everyday.” “When
you start people off at a new and difficult job, start them
off slowly and ease them into the routine little-by-little
until it becomes normal to them.” “When you start people off at a new and difficult job, start them off slowly
and ease them into the routine little-by-little until it becomes normal to them.” “When I started as a summerhire construction laborer at sixteen, at first, they did not
give me a full man’s load of work to do, but started me
off slowly and gradually eased me into being capable of
doing heavier work.” *

Ease up on me 
Don’t be so harsh; take it easy on me; don’t be so hard on
me; cut me some slack. “Don’t be so hard on me. I’ve
seen my mistake and I’ve said I’m sorry, so I’m asking
you to please ease up on me.” “Stop bitching about my
work all the time. I’m doing the best I can, so just ease
up on me a bit, before I lose my temper and quit.” “Stop
punishing me for things I did to you in the past. Please
ease up on me and cut me some slack. I want to feel that
I am making things up to you and not that you are paying
me back.” *

Easier said than done! 
That is easier to say than to do. “Behaving morally perfectly is easier said than done.” “Don’t guarantee anyone
anything that is easier said than done.” “Promising you
can complete a job by deadline is easier said than done.”*

Easiest thing in the world 
As simple as pie; no problem; consider it done; no trouble at all. “Let me help you find a part-time job. For me,
it is the easiest thing in the world, because I know everybody in town.” “Quitting smoking is the easiest thing in
the world. I have done it thousands of times.” “Let me
speak my brother-in-law and ask him to make your problem disappear. It’s the easiest thing in the world.” * 

Easy as pie 
Not hard at all; nothing could be simpler; easy to accomplish; no trouble to do; takes little effort. “It’s as easy as
pie to locate an old school friend, by using our name
search software on your computer.” “Learning to assemble this book shelf is as easy as pie. Just look at the pictures and follow the directions and you will be done in no
time.” “Getting spending money from father is as easy as
pie. All you have to do is give him a kiss on the cheek
and hold out your hand.” *

Easy come easy go 
Taking things in a relaxed manner; accepting the way
things happen without getting stressed; being relaxed and
unperturbed; not taking things seriously “Take things as
they come and learn to let things go. Easy come go.”
“Upcountry folks are much-more easy come easy go than
uptight city folks.” “I won a million in the lottery and
spent every penny of it with no regrets. Easy come easy
go.” *

Easy does it! 
Take it easy! Go slowly! “Not too fast! Easy does it!
Take your time and be careful. Don’t go too fast or
something wrong will surely happen.” “Easy does it!
This is a heavy beam, so we will have to slide it carefully
off the wall so it doesn’t slip and fall.” “East does it!
Control your temper and hold your tongue before you say
something you will be sorry for.” *

Easy money 
Money that comes without one’s having had to work
very hard for it. “People who become used to getting
easy money soon lose their taste for hard work.” “’Easy
money may come easy but it goes even more easily.”
“The problem with easy money is that it is often money
dishonestly made.” *

Easy option 
The easier of two choices or alternatives; the easy way
out. “When students have the choice between taking an
easy or hard course, they usually take the easy option.”
“There is always the hard way of doing things and the
easy way. Most people, if they can, take the easy way out
and choose the easy option.” “Most people when faced
with telling the truth and taking the consequences or lying and taking the easy way out, take the easy option.” *
Easy touch Someone naïve and trusting who is easily cheated.
“When I am broke, I always ask my Mom for money.
She’s such an easy touch.” “Taxi drivers think that foreigners coming from the airport are an easy touch, and
they are often right.” “If a bar girl tells a nice old man a
sob story, he may feel sorry for her and offer her some
money to help out. Bar girls can see from a mile away
when such an old man is an easy touch.” *

Easy-going 
Relaxed and taking it easy in a friendly and happy way;
not getting upset or taking things too seriously. “My boss 
is very relaxed, friendly and easy-going and a pleasure to
work with.” “Sister Mary was kind and easy-going in
nature, and everybody got along with her extremely
well.” “Even though the level of professional performance in my office is very high, the atmosphere is still
friendly, polite and easy-going.” *

Eat away (at one’s resources)
Keep slowly consuming something so it continues diminishing. “The way I was eating away at my financial resources slowly caused them to diminish to the point that I
had almost nothing.” “If rising maintenance costs keep
eating away at company resources the way they have
been, the, we will have to restructure our finances and
wait and hope for the situation to change.” “Environmentalists warn that if we keep eating away at our natural
resources until the point there are not enough left to support world superstructure and civilization, then the
world’s population will meet a dire end.” *

Eat crow 
Means the same as ‘eat humble pie,’ in other words
someone who makes a big statement or claim, that does
not turn out to be true and has to admit he was wrong;
has to eat his words; take back what he said; admit he
was wrong and overstated his claim. “Those who are too
loud and proud are often knocked-down low and forced
to eat crow.” “I never expected that I would be forced to
eat crow when I bragged that I would get the highest
grade point average in the class.” “The incumbent Presidential candidate claimed he would surely be re-elected,
but, then after he lost by an overwhelming majority, he
was forced to eat crow.” *

Eat in/ eat out 
Eat at home or go out to eat. “Usually I stay at home and
eat in, but sometimes at the weekend when I am out-oftown, it’s easier to eat out.” “Mother is happy to eat in
most days, but once in a while she enjoys the treat of eating out in some fancy restaurant.” “On days when I am
working at the office in town, I always eat out, but on
days when I plan to stay at home, I naturally eat in.” *

Eat into 
Cause to diminish; become less. “The cost of fuel is beginning to eat into my available monthly budget for
travel.” “If you keep eating into your savings and your
accrued bank interest keeps diminishing, gradually everything will be eaten away.” “If Gerald keeps eating into
his trust fund the way he has been, all his resources will
be gone by the time he is thirty-one.” *

Eat it up. 
To enjoy something so much that you are dying and crying for more. “Those who are addicted to getting other’s
attention eat it up and cannot get enough of it.” “Some
people love hearing praise so much that they eat it up as
fast as it comes and keep craving for more and more.” 
“Our friend Martin enjoys being the center of attention so
much that he eats it up and cannot wait for the next occasion when he can become the center of attention once
more.” *

Eat like a horse 
Just as a horse will keep on eating until it has finished its
oats, so people may be said to keep on stuffing themselves until they are full. “After a hard day of working on
the farm, I am so hungry that I could eat like a horse.”
“Sally is so hungry she could eat like a horse, but she
knows that if she does, she’ll gain weight of course.”
“Everybody on the football team eats like a horse, and
their trainers feed them well because they believe good
nourishment will improve their strength and force.” *

Eat out of someone’s hand
Just as we can tame an animal to eat out of our hand, so
we can train a person to eat out of our hand when they do
what we want. “Just as a wild deer might eat out of a
gentle person’s hand, so my girlfriend has got me eating
out of her hand.” “Shelia is so nice to the boss that she
has got him eating out of her hand, and he will do anything she wants him too.” “We might be able to gain influence with the Premier by going through his daughter
because, as everybody knows, he eats out of her hand.” *

Eat your heart out 
An expression used derogatorily when you see someone
else is jealous and feeling bitter envy of something you
have achieved or received. “When you see your envious
friends wish they had as much money as you, you can
tell them to eat their hearts out, because they will never
be as wealthy as you.” “I know that you have always
wanted to marry Herbert, but you can eat your heart out,
because, now, he has proposed to me already.” “I know
you would love to have a two carat diamond ring just like
mine, but you can eat your heart out, because your fiancée hasn’t got enough money to afford it.” *

Eat your shirt 
There is an expression that says when you claim or state
something, especially when boasting, that proves to be
not true you will have to eat your words: saying ‘eat your
shirt’ or ‘eat your hat’ means the same thing as ‘eat your
words.’ “If what I have claimed proves to be not true, I’ll
eat my shirt right here in front of you.” “If you are not as
good as you claim to be, you will have to eat your shirt
and your hat too.” “If what the President promises turns
out not to be true, he will have to eat his shirt.” *

Eating away at your conscious
Making you continue to feel guilty. “The way I disappointed my first wife keeps eating away at my conscience.” “The way Mona took financial advantage of me
is probably still eating away at her conscience.” “If the
way Aye disappointed her boyfriend is not eating away at
her conscience that will be a sign that she has no shame 
or fear of moral dread.”*

Eating binge 
Just as some alcoholics go on a drinking binge, so some
bulimics go on an eating binge. “Between my father’s
drinking binges and my mother’s eating binges, I had a
rather unsettled childhood.” “Often, when people feel a
psychological lack, they try to fill their sense of emptiness by going on an eating binge.” “One day, Maria, unconsciously went, to the fridge, opened it and started
slowly eating almost everything in it until she finally had
to vomit. That was her first eating binge.”*

Eats like a bird 
Someone who eats very little or only picks a bit at of the
food on the plate without eating much may be said to eat
like a bird. “She’s so thin. I don’t know how she nourishes herself, she eats like a bird.” “She’s on a very strict
diet; she hardly eats anything. She eats like a bird.”
“Since Granny began to recover from heart failure, she
eats like a bird. It’s as though she’s afraid to gain weight
that would put any extra strain on her heart.” *

Eaves-drop on someone 
Stand so close by to a person having a conversation that
you can listen to everything he says without him knowing it; use listening devices for spying purposes. “Jane
loves to eavesdrop on the telephone conversations of the
girl in the next cubicle to her in the office. In the hopes
of learning some of her secrets.” “Eva loves to stand
around and mingle at social receptions and eavesdrop on
other people’s conversations so she will have some nasty
secrets to gossip about.” “When I was with military intelligence, stationed at Sinope, Turkey, on the Black Sea,
we had listening devices that allowed us to eavesdrop on
radio and telephone communications between Russian
submarines and on the Russian mainland.”*

Eccentric individual 
An odd, peculiar, unpredictable person who behaves in
an unconventional way. “The Duchess is so eccentric that
nobody ever knows what she is going to do next.” “Old
Ebenezer was so odd, peculiar and eccentric that his pattern of behavior was wholly unpredictable.” “One way to
describe a person as being ‘eccentric’ is to say he does
not conform to the norm but acts differently than would
be expected.” *

Educated guess 
A calculated guess based on the knowledge that one has.
“I don’t know how much original, naturally, forested
land has remained untouched in Thailand, but an educated guess might be eight to twelve percent.” “We are
not quite sure when man will burn up the world based on
greed and anger, but an educated guess suggests it might
be before the next millennium.” “The Abbot does not
know how much construction of the crematorium might
cost to build, but an educated guess would be about one-point-five million, excluding labor costs.” *

Egg someone on 
Push and dare someone to do something that may not be
good for him and harmful for others. “Carl didn’t really
want to set the henhouse on fire, but the other children
kept egging him on until he finally did it.” “I’m really
sorry I did a strip-tease in front of the whole student body
at the home-coming football game, but the other students
kept egging me on until I finally lost my head and just
did it.” “The lawyer for the defense claims the accused
acted under extenuating circumstances because he acted
following the intentions of the bystanders who were egging him against his will rather than depending on his own
will and volition.” *

Ego trip 
Getting carried away with an inflated sense of one’s own
ego. “When a person is all full-of-himself and thinks he
is the best and the greatest, we say he is on an ego trip.”
“We should all be careful not to become overly proud of
our accomplishments and go off on an ego trip.” “When
someone goes on an ego trip, he gets so swell-headed and
puffed that others want to pop his balloon.” *

Egocentric person 
A person who sees himself as the center of the world.
“Joan’s husband is so egocentric that he thinks he is the
center of the world.” “Someone who is egocentric sees
himself as the center of the world and views everything
in a selfish way.” “We have a Scottish friend from Glasgow who is so egocentric that he thinks the sun shines
out of his own navel.” *

Ego-maniac 
Someone who only thinks about himself as if the whole
world revolved around him. “To be self-centered is one
thing, but when a person wants the whole world to go his
way and to follow his wishes, he becomes an egomaniac.” “Political dictators are sometimes ego-maniacs
who, somehow, through circumstances, find themselves
in a position of absolute power to rule over the lives of
millions of others.” “J. Edgar Hoover, the former director
of the FBI was thought by many to be a total ego-maniac
who pried-into the secret lives of others just as a means
of perpetuating his own power.” *

Eke out a living 
Work hard to earn just barely enough to eat and survive.
“Nowadays with the high cost of fuel, many taxi drivers
are finding it hard to eke out a living in Bangkok.” “In
the old days, in the Northeast, it was very hard for rice
farmers to eke out a living and have enough even to just
barely survive.” “During the Great Depression, in America, in the 1930’s, the farmers in Oklahoma could not eke
out a living from their land and were forced to emigrate
westwards were they found things even worse.” *

Elaborate upon 
Give more information about; explain further. “We shall 
now ask the team leader to and elaborate upon and give
more details about the project.” “Having explained my
thesis and the concept I wish to confirm, please allow me
to elaborate upon it by giving supporting statistics and
details.” “The Senate Hearing Board is not satisfied that
the CIA Director has told all he knows, and they are calling him back for more questioning to elaborate further
upon the details of the satellite surveillance intelligence
information.” *

Elbow grease 
Working hard with the hands, especially to rub and polish; or bending the elbows continuously in a mechanical,
circular fashion such, as for buffing or cleaning. “All
right girls, we’d better put some elbow grease into it and
get all these big, bay windows cleaned by the time the
princess arrives at five pm.” “If you don’t put enough
elbow grease into shining the brass candlesticks, they
won’t shine the way they are supposed to.” “If we don’t
speed up the effort and put some elbow grease into it,
we’ll never have the silver service, polished in time for
the wedding reception this afternoon.” *

Elbow room 
Space in which to move freely, without being squeezedin-together; without having to rub elbows tightly enclosed with a lot of other people; room within which to
move; free space around you. “Give me a little elbow
room and don’t crowd me, or I may go crazy and have a
screaming fit.” “My problem with riding down in the lift
at lunch hour is that I feel claustrophobic when I’m
squeezed into a corner with no elbow room.” “I’ve
stopped taking busses because, I’m afraid of enclosed
spaces and being jammed together with a lot of others,
with no elbow room.” *

Elbow your way 
Force yourself to the front of the crowd, using your elbows to dig and push your way forward; “Macy’s is having a big summer sale, with drastically reduced prices,
and customers are elbowing their way forward towards
the sales counters to get the best bargain prices.” “In a
crowded English pub, you sometimes have to elbow your
forward, up to the bar, through a crushing mass of swaying bodies, if you want to order another round of drinks.”
“Some people try to get ahead in their careers by elbowing their way forward, but this does not work in the long
run, because it is the quality of one’s performance that
counts and not how bold and brazen and aggressive one
can be.” *

Embezzle funds 
Steal money in business or government by using dishonest bookkeeping. “When the Mafia found that their accountant had been embezzling funds, they put a hit out
on him.” “Some government officials have been accused 
of embezzling from appropriated funds, but that would
never happen in a true democracy.” “If you embezzle
millions in funds you go to jail for maybe three rears
with good behavior but, if you get caught sticking up a
liquor store, you might get four years or more.” *

Empower someone to do something
Give someone the authority or authorization to do something. “The President has empowered the Vice President
to be responsible for his duties while the President is defending himself against charges of war crimes before an
international tribunal.” “I have been empowered by the
Grand Lodge of Scotland to present and reward you with
this jewel in honor of your long and dedicated service.”
“I have been empowered by my client through this power
of attorney to represent him in clearing up his financial
affairs.” *

Empty promises 
Promises made with no intention of fulfilling them. “Men
are always trying to get women to believe in them by
making a lot of empty promises.” “My Dad was always
disappointing me by making empty promises to take me
to the circus and things like that when he never intended
to keep them in the first place.” “Don’t make a lot of
empty promises just to help you get what you want in the
short run if you don’t intend to keep them in the long
run.” *

Empty threats 
Threats made with no intention of carrying them out.
“Don’t be afraid if my brother threatens to harm you. He
is always making empty threats that he never carries
out.” “People who tell you you’d better watch out and
that they are going to get back at you are usually just
making empty threats.” “Our boss is always making
empty treats about firing people who do not follow his
orders, but, by now, we know that He never follows
through on his stated intentions once he has cooled
down.” *

End of the line 
As far as it goes; nothing left to do; nothing further to try.
“We have tried everything to succeed but every attempt
has failed, and we have reached the end of the line.”
“I’ve lost all my friends and my money, and I can’t see
where my life can go on from here. To me, it looks like
I’ve reached the end of the line.” “After years of drug
and alcohol addiction followed by HIV infection, Cyrus
had reached the end of the line and finally died.” *
End up Reach the final result; what happens in the end. “The
only sure thing about a man’s life is that he will end up
dead.” “If you lie and cheat a lot, you will end up paying
for your bad deeds in the end.” “My Mom says that she
will be happy as long as I am able to hold down a steady
job and don’t end up in jail.” * 

Ends of the earth 
All over the world, in everyplace; to the furthest reaches
and corners of the globe. “Darling, I would follow you to
the ends of the earth just not to lose sight of you.” “You
can search to the ends of the earth looking for the perfect
society, but, in actual fact, there is no such thing.” “Research teams have searched to the ends of the earth for
archeological relics and remains connected to the origin
of the ancient mysteries, but, to date, they have come up
empty-handed.” *

Enduring effort 
Non-stop endeavor with no pause or let-up. “He who
makes an enduring effort and never slackens his place
will almost always succeed to achieve his goal in the
end.” “It has been only because of the enduring effort of
the United Nations that any progress to world peace is
being made at all.” “If one does not arouse energy and
make a concentrated and enduring effort, one has no
chance whatever of achieving Nirvana.” *

Engage in conversation 
Talk together with another or others. “I am rather shy
about engaging in conversation with other people.”
“Some people have the talent of being easily able to engage others in conversation.” “If you have the ability to
engage others in conversation easily, this might be an
indication that you would make a good teacher.” *

Enlarge upon 
Explain in greater detail; expand by giving further information. “Allow me to enlarge upon my initial statement
and give you some convincing details that will help you
make up your mind.” “We understand your concept of
how to develop the land, but, for the benefit of our potential investors, would you please enlarge upon the plan
and give some further details.” “The Assistant District
Attorney has asked his team to research back-up materials to be used to enlarge upon the prosecution’s allegation that the governor has been guilty of embezzlement
of government funds.” *

Enlist support 
Call for backing for “My Mom used to go around knocking on doors trying to enlist support for the conservative
party and getting people to vote for the conservative candidate.” “I am not one of those outgoing, aggressive people who can go around drumming up, and enlisting support for a good cause. I’m just not the type.” “The Rotary
Club is trying to think of new ways of getting backing
and enlisting support for opening neighborhood youth
centers to combat juvenile delinquency.” *

Enough is enough! 
That is too much; this goes too far. “I’m fed up with all
your deceitfulness. Stop your lying. Enough is enough!”
“I’ve had it! I cannot stand your insults any more.
Enough is enough!” “Ok. That’s it! I’m leaving because I
cannot stand all this continual bickering. Enough is 
enough!” *

Enough rope to hang yourself
Give a man time enough time, and he will show through
his continuing behavior the necessary evidence to bring
about his own demise and punishment. “Don’t arrest the
suspect yet, just put him under surveillance and give him
enough rope to hang himself.” “When you feel someone
is lying to you, don’t let on you know. Let him keep talking and give him enough rope to hang himself until you
catch him in an actual and undeniable lie.” “When you
want to catch someone who is stealing from you, let him
think you still trust him and, then, give him enough rope
to hang himself, by allowing him to continue what he is
doing until you get hard enough hard evidence to convict
him of what of what you suspect.” *

Enough to tide me over 
Enough to live on while you wait for a new low of income; money enough to get through a lean patch; enough
to live on while waiting for better days. “Farmer Jones
has put aside a little money to tide him over the winter
until the following harvest season comes.” “Duncan
hasn’t saved a whole lot of money from his last job on
the oil rigs, but he has at least enough to tide him over
until the next contract started in September.” “I’m going
to take a break from work for a while and get some
much-needed rest and recreation. I’ve got enough money
set aside to tide me over for at least the next six months
and maybe even a year if I am careful.” *

Enticing offer 
A tempting, alluring, attractive offer which entices
someone into accepting something that will not necessarily be good for him. “A pornographic film director made
Judy an enticing offer to appear in a sex movie, but she
wouldn’t think of it!” “Earning big bucks working offshore in Iran is an enticing offer, but I think it might be
just a little bit too dangerous.” “The company made the
CEO an enticing offer to stay on and run the company,
but he knew he had run it into the ground and didn’t want
to be around when the shit hit the fan.” *

Equal opportunity 
The same opportunities as everyone else in society.
“During the 1960’s, the US Army started an equal opportunity program that gave equal chances to women, Hispanics and blacks.” “All people in the nation should have
an equal opportunity to get an education regardless of
rank and station or where they were born.” “People of the
third world are sometimes disheartened because they feel
that they have not had an equal opportunity with the peoples of the developed world in being provided the right to
work and earn money to strive to improve themselves.” *

Equal to the task 
Able to meet the challenge; good enough to do the job. “I
accept the responsibility of being a good mother, and I 
am sure that I will prove equal to the task.” “Thank you
for trusting me with the responsibility of being Toastmasters Club President for this year, and I hope to show
you that I am equal to the task.” “I have signed-up for a
tall ship cruising course in which I shall have to furl sails
balancing out on the yardarm near the top of the mast,
and I hope to prove equal to the task.” *

Equitable conditions 
Fair and balanced circumstances. “Working as a contract
employee without welfare benefits does not provide the
contract employee with equitable conditions.” “The lectures on yearly contracts complain that they do not have
equitable conditions with the tenured-lecturers.” “Lawful
employment practice must provide that everyone hired
must work under fair and equitable conditions.” *

Err on the side of caution 
Take heed to be too careful as opposed to being too careless. “He who errs on the side of caution will have the
satisfaction that he is doing his best to avoid fatal results.” “It’s better to have a little too much food for the
banquet than a little too little. It is always wise to err on
the side of caution.” “It’s better to retain as much money
in the company reserve fund as possible without hindering necessary capital flow, just as an assurance that the
firm may have the reserves to pull through hard times
should this prove to be necessary.” *

Erratic behavior 
Unpredictable, irregular, inconsistent ways of behaving.
“We had to put out mother in a home-for- the-aged because of her erratic behavior, for her own safety and
good.” “They say that people who are schizophrenic exhibit erratic behavior: one minute they can be calm and
normal and the next the exact opposite or even something
more dangerous and even worse.” “We had to fire the
maid because of her erratic behavior: she would be thinking one thing one minute and the total opposite the next,
and the same was true of her actions. We need someone
solid and stable to run the house and not someone unpredictable and unreliable.” *

Erroneous belief 
Mistaken, wrong, incorrect belief based on error. “For a
long time people suffered the erroneous belief that the
earth was at the center of the universe.” “Similarly, people have the erroneous belief that is happening in the
body or consciousness is synonymous with self.” “Another example of erroneous belief is that physics studies
physical objects they have solidity in the world, when,
actually, everything exits in waves and particles that have
no permanent existence.” *

Error in judgment 
Mistake in judging something. “The president now admits that he made an error in judgment in pardoning Albert Pike for his traitorous actions.” “I am afraid I have 
to now admit that I made an error in judgment in choosing Palm to be put in charge of my household affairs.”
“Whenever one makes an error in judgment, the best
thing to do is admit that you were wrong and ask for understanding and forgiveness.” *

Escape hatch 
Just as boat has an escape hatch as a way out in the case
of flooding , so we say we will build in an seek ad escape
hatch into a plan or contract. “We shall have to write this
contract agreement so that it contains an escape hatch in
case our partner runs out of funds and leaves us holding
the bag and fully liable for all continuing expenses.”
“The Constitution contains an escape hatch where it says
that a man cannot be required to give evidence against
himself that can be used to convict him.” *

Establish yourself 
Get in somewhere and get on good footing so you are
firm in your professional foundation. “Benjamin Franklin
went to Philadelphia with hardly a penny in his pocket,
but it did not take him long to establish himself in a trade
that later led him into prosperity and wealth.” “If you
graduate in law, it is a good idea to first establish yourself by gaining a few years of experience in an established law firm before making a parallel move or establishing your own practice.” “Once you have got a job as
a university lecturer, you then need to establish yourself
in the profession by writing articles, papers and books
which will make you a name in your field.”*

Evaporate into thin air 
Just as sea water evaporates into the air and disappears,
so we may say a person has evaporated or disappeared
suddenly without a trace. “When I was just six, my
Daddy evaporated into thin air and was never seen
again.” “Angels and devas can take on human form to
visit the human realm, but when they are finished their
visit, they just evaporate into thin air, as if just little
wisps of cloud.” “The bank robber went out the front
door of the bank and seemed to evaporate into thin air,
and nobody knows just how he pulled off his vanishing
act.” *

Evasive answer 
An ambiguous, vague reply; an indirect response which
avoids answering the question directly by ignoring or
evading the point. “I hate it when my husband gives evasive answers to my questions. I wish I could get him to
reply directly and tell me the clear and exact truth.”
“Sometimes monks give evasive answers because they
do not want to be drawn into detailed discussions about
worldly matters.” “Politicians are known for giving evasive answers to allow them to skirt issues which they do
not want to face.” *

Eventual demise Final and ultimate ruin; eventual downfall brought about 
by one’s own actions. “If A man continues lying and
cheating and deceiving people, sooner or later he will
bring about his own ruin and meet his eventual demise.”
“Jimmy Hoffa, the union leader who had dealings with
the Mafia met his eventual demise through being murdered and encased in cement.” “At first Adolph Hitler
seemed to be unstoppable, mad, tyrant, dictator, but in
the end, in a bunker in Berlin, he met his eventual demise
by taking cyanide and got what he deserved.”

Every eventuality 
Every possible condition that might arise. “Before you
start a business venture you should consider every eventuality concerning anything and everything that could go
wrong.” “A good risk manager is trained to spot any
eventuality that might ultimately lead to financial loss for
the firm.” “Disaster Relief Centers must plan for every
eventuality in order to be prepared for any situation with
which they might possibly be faced in the future.” *

Every man for himself. 
You’re on your own; you have to save yourself when
there’s no one there to fight for you. “Try to save yourself first before you think of others. It’s a case of every
man for himself.” “This is a dog-eat-dog world in which
every man must look out for himself: it’s every man for
himself.” “After we pull off the assassination, I want everybody in the unit to disappear into the crowd and try to
get away from the scene in the best way you can. It’s
every man for himself.” *

Every man has his price. 
This expression assumes that everybody can be corrupted
and bribed into doing the wrong thing if he is paid
enough: the higher the person’s integrity the higher his
price is. “They say that some people are incorruptible,
but every man has his price. You just have to find his
weak point, and then work on him until he gives in.” “It
will be hard to convince the President to lower taxes by
seven percent, but every man has his price. If we convince him, it can help him get more votes to get reelected. He’ll go along with it.” “Sometimes when a person betrays his principles for money or for selfish motives related to security, power, influence or the satisfaction of other desires, we say, ironically that every person
has his price.” *

Every trick in the book 
All the devious, dishonest tactics and devices possible.
“Ann tried every known trick in the book to get my
money and make me angry, but, I was too slippery for
her and she failed to succeed.” “I have tried every trick in
the book to try to seduce Murielle’s husband but nothing
seems to work.” “Stay away from girls in bars. These
girls know every conceivable trick in the book to be used
to deceive and tale advantage of foreigners on their
own.” *

Everything but the kitchen sink
A lot of unnecessary things; a lot of extra stuff. “When I
first went off to college I packed everything but the
kitchen sink into my old jalopy only to find once I got to
school that I took too much junk with me.” “When the
Joads packed up for their journey to California, they
packed everything they could into their vehicle but the
kitchen sink.” “When I was young my mom used to carry
a big handbag in which she carried everything but the
kitchen sink.”*

Exact information from someone
To obtain or extract information from someone by questioning or coercion. “The Americans have trained interrogators who interview and extract information from
anyone who defects to the West from the opposing side.”
“A good interviewer has ways of turning the conversation in a way of extracting information from people
without then ever knowing what they said.” “The Revenue Department has people who are especially trained in
ways to extract information from people suspected of
hiding sources of income and holding black money.”*

Excess baggage 
Just as at the airport you may have to pay an extra baggage fee for luggage over (in excess) a certain weightlimit or throw it in the dustbin, so we can call a person
‘excess baggage’ when we do not want him around or to
take him along anymore. “The day when they finally
fired me, the managing director said in a very nice way
that I had become excess baggage.” “I’m sorry I married
a divorcee, and I now think that she and her ex-husband’s
useless children are just so much excess baggage!” “It’s
not fair, after the way Aunt Sadie has devoted her whole
life to putting her children through school, so they could
get jobs and marry and have children of their own, that
the whole family are now treating her as if she were
nothing more than excess baggage.” *

Excessive force 
More force than is necessary, required or allowable by
law. “There is a law that prohibits the use of excessive
force in expulsing unwanted patrons from entertainment
establishments.” “There is a law against the police making use of excessive force to subdue suspects, and smart
lawyers sometimes get their client’s off-the-hook by
claiming use of unnecessary force and police brutality.”
“American Troops have been warned against using extra
and unnecessary force to route out terrorists hiding in
densely populated areas because the USA does not want
to make enemies unnecessarily amongst the indigenous
people.” *

Excruciating circumstances
Terrible, agonizing, unbearable conditions. “In early
nineteenth century England, in Manchester, there were 
many poor cotton mill workers who lived in miserable
and excruciating circumstances.” “There are said to be
forest monks who can live under the most excruciating
circumstances in remote mountain caves full of snakes
and frequented by tigers.” “In the Northeast, there are
still many poor and destitute mothers, with four or more
young children, with no means of income, who have
been deserted by their husbands, and who live in excruciating circumstances.” *

Excuse the interruption 
Sorry, please excuse me for breaking into your conversation or meeting. “Please excuse the interruption during
your meeting, Sir, but your wife is on the phone asking if
she can use the car and chauffeur this afternoon.” “Sorry
to break into your meeting gentlemen. Excuse the interruption, but it is my duty to inform you that the court has
just declared our firm to be bankrupt.” “Please excuse
the interruption. I am sorry to disturb your conversation,
but I would like to inform you that your turban is on
fire!” *

Exercise restraint 
Practice moderation; be self-controlled. “Don’t go overboard and start shouting over even the slightest little insult. Exercise restraint.” “Mediators are taught to exercise mental restrain and guard the sense doors against
intrusions that may make the mind stray from its object.”
“The police are trained to exercise restraint in mob control, but they are also trained to use aggressive force in
order to protect themselves from attack.” *

Exert yourself 
Make your strongest effort; try as hard as you can to
achieve your aim. “My teacher says that if I do not exert
myself to learn something, he is going to kick me out of
school for good.” “I know that if I exert myself to the
fullest of my abilities that I am capable of achieving the
final goal.” “If one sets one’s goals high and exerts oneself, there is no limit to the possibilities that may open up
to one.” *

Exist on borrowed time 
Live beyond life expectancy. “After they discovered that
the heart transplant was being rejected, they knew he was
existing only on borrowed time.” “According to medical
statistics, I should have died already three or four years
ago, but by some miracle I have managed to continue to
exist on borrowed time.” “The government will surely be
defeated in the next election and may as well be dead already and its power and influence only continue to exist
on borrowed time.” *

Expand your horizon 
Broaden your point of view. Traveling the world and seeing the ways and customs of different peoples helps expand your horizon.”
Expel from school Be dismissed and kicked out-of-school. “My friend, 
Mitch, punched his history teacher in the face and was
expelled from school immediately.” “Our brother Terry
was expelled from school for a show of defiance against
authority and was never able to continue his education.”
“Several times in his youth, Dale was almost expelled
from school for being a mischievous and naughty boy,
but for some reason, he managed to stay in and even go
to college.” *

Explore the mind 
Just as early sailors and adventures explored the world,
so we may be said to explore the mind to understand it
better. “Some people seem to have been born with a
closed-mind and some appear to have been born to open
and explore the mind.” “Psychoanalysis, simply defined,
is developing the ability to explore the mind.” “True explorers of the mind find that it has two sides: one side is
passive and observes; the other side is active and wanders and swerves.” *

Express condolences 
Convey or communicate sympathy, pity and kind understanding. “Please allow me to express my sincere condolences on the death of your mother.” “Messages have
come in from heads-of-state from all around the world to
express condolences upon the death of the Pope.” “My
family and I wish to express our deepest and most-heartfelt condolences upon the occasion of the death of your
daughter.” *

Extenuating circumstances
Justifiable, explainable, mitigating circumstances beyond
your control. “The Police Chief ruled that due to extenuating circumstances the officer concerned was not to be
disciplined for allowing his badge and gun to be stolen.”
“Sometimes, due to extenuating circumstances that you
cannot control unexpected things may happen that you
have to take responsibility for.” “If due to extenuating
circumstances beyond your control, you cannot be at
your workplace at the designated time, it is your duty to
inform your supervisor-in-charge of the reason for your
absence.” *

Extort money from 
Force someone to give you money by making threats.
“To extort money means to threaten someone that if he
does not give you money, you will make something bad
happen to him, his family, his business or reputation.”
“In the old days, neighborhood Mafia gang-members
used to extort protection money from local shop owners
by threatening to break up their shops or hurt their children.” “Unfortunately, there are still places in the world
were local strongmen are able to extort money from
members of the community who have to pay for the sake
of their own protection.” “In this country, fortunately,
there are no corrupt politicians who would try to extort 
money from others motivated by selfish circumstances.”*

Extrasensory perception 
Sixth sense; being able to see phenomena that normal
people in human society cannot see. “Extrasensory perception (ESP) means being able to see and know phenomenon that are come from beyond the realm of the
senses.” “Someone who can see and talk to ghosts and
know what is in the minds of spirits is said to have a
sixth sense or extrasensory perception.” “There are some
people who know things without knowing why or where
the things come from; all they can say is that they somehow know due to extrasensory perception.” *

Extricate yourself from 
Get yourself out of a situation so you don’t have to take
the blame. “The Governor has managed to extricate himself from charges of embezzlement by making the financial records of all transactions public.” “The Mayor has
managed to extricate himself from charges of taking
payoffs from suppliers and contractors by saying that he
had no personal knowledge of such transactions.” “The
former Democratic leader tried unsuccessfully to extricate himself from accusations that he had an affair with a
female congressional aid.” *

Eye-opener 
An experience that serves as an awakening; a sudden realization based on new evidence or fact. “When someone
told me that foreign wars were all about keeping up the
price of oil that was a real eye-opener for me.” “When I
discovered, first hand, from personal experience that under-the-table corruption money had risen from five fifteen percent that was a real eye-opener.” “The day I discovered that the price of sensual desire was proportionate
to accumulated need, that was a real eye-opener, and,
since then, I have never again looked at sensuality in the
same way.” *

Eyes in the back of your head
Have the capability to see what is coming up behind you
or going on behind your back. “In martial arts movies,
Kung-Fu fighters always seem to have eyes in the back
of their heads because they can sense when attack is
coming from the back.” “If you hope to be a teacher and
maintain classroom discipline, you must develop eyes in
the back of your head, because, the moment you turn to
write on the board, the students will start acting up behind your back.” “The supervisor always knows what is
going on in the workshop, even when he is not looking.
He must have eyes in the back of his head.” *

Eye-to-eye 
See things the same way; share the same view; agree.
“My father and I do not see eye-to-eye on the question of
how to restructure the company.” “My mother and I do
not see eye-to-eye on the way that young people dress 
today.” “The Prime Minister and the President do not see
eye-to-eye on the issue of placing foreign troops indefinitely on foreign soil.” *

Eye-wash 
A lot of lies; deception; dishonesty; falsehood; deceit;
trickery; nonsense. “I don’t believe one word your saying. It’s all a lot of eyewash.” “Don’t try to fool me with
a lot of eyewash. Just forget the phony excuse and tell
me the truth.” “The government is trying to cover-up the
political blunder with a lot of eyewash and propaganda in
the press, but they are not fooling anybody.” *

Fabricated excuse 
A total lie which is made-up to get out of trouble; a lie
which is thought up to provide a false excuse. “I do not
believe that the dog ate your homework. That is just s
fabricated excuse to get your self out of trouble.” “When
my mother wanted me to skip school and go somewhere
with her, she would write a letter to the teacher containing the fabricated excuse that I was sick in bed.” “The
President’s used the fabricated excuse that he had been
misinformed by the CIA about suspicious-looking
ground movements to get out of the accusation of having
purposely killed a caravan of refugees on the move.” *

Face reality! 
Face the facts; accept reality as it is; face up to it. “Face
reality! You can never be a Miss World or a Hollywood
star because you are not charming or pretty enough.” “Be
honest for once in your life. Face reality! You are just not
big and strong and fast enough to become a world class
football star.” ” “It’s time our team looked the facts and
faced the reality that there is no way we can succeed in
sending a manned-satellite to orbit the sun.” *

Face the challenge 
Meet the confrontation with confidence and courage in
order to overcome it. “Giving your first presentation in
class is a big challenge for most, but, if you prepare carefully and practice hard, you will be able to face the challenge without any trouble.” “It’s not easy to pass the entrance exam, but if you face the challenge and work your
hardest and get all the help you can, you may just succeed.” “In the mid-nineteenth century, no body would
ever have thought that science and technology would be
able to face the challenge and soon be able to put a man
on the moon.” *

Face the consequences 
Accept and pay the penalty for what you have done;
make-up for your wrong actions. “You were caught
breaking a dormitory regulation, and now, you are going
to have to face the consequences of being expelled from
the dormitory.” “If one insists on drinking a quart of
whiskey every day, one will have to face the consequences of eventually dying from liver cirrhosis.’ “Now
that you have got my daughter pregnant, you are going to 
have to face the consequences and marry her and, then,
face the challenge of being a good husband and raising a
family.” *

Face the music 
Face the consequences and pay the penalty for what you
have done. “If you persist in your criminal actions, one
day you will be caught for sure and have to face the music.” “The audit team has caught you embezzling and
juggling the books, and, now, you are going to have to
face the music and go to jail for a few years.” “My
teacher has caught me cheating on the math exam, so,
now, I have been sent to the principal’s office where I am
going to have to face the music.” *

Face your fears 
Meet your fears head-on and don’t run away from them.
“Fear is all in the mind. If you know that fear arises only
in your head, you can analyze it away and learn to face
your fears.” “Stand up and be a man and face your fears,
for, if you run away from them, you will know yourself
to be a coward.” “I am afraid that I may not be able to
realize my expectations, but one thing I know for sure is
that if I do not learn to face my fears and to overcome all
obstacles, then I will fail for sure.” *

Face-to-face 
Being right in front of another person looking him
straight in the face; vis-à-vis. “After my parents divorced, they never again saw one another face-to-face.”
“The Prime Minister has declined to have a face-to-face
Public Debate with the leader of the opposition.” “I’d
like to get my two accusers face-to-face and ask them to
justify on the basis of what evidence they have started
this nasty rumor.” *

Facts of life 
The realities of life the way it really is; the truth about
the birds and the bees; how babies come into the world.
“By the time I knew the facts of life, I was already thirteen and pregnant.” “Sharon’s parents didn’t tell her the
facts of life until she was sixteen, and, she didn’t bother
to tell them, that, by then, she knew everything already.”
“As we grow up we learn that we have to face everything
the way it is that is; we have to learn to face the facts of
life the way they come.”*

Fading fast 
Just as we can say a person is disappearing from view
into the haze or fog quickly, so we can also say a person
is fading fast when he is approaching death through illness. “Father’s health is fading fast and he will soon be
on the brink of death.” “The twilight was fading fast and
the soldiers had to pitch their tents quickly before total
darkness set in.” “Tom Braxton’s breath was fading fast,
and he knew he was dying from lack of oxygen.” *

Fail to see 
Cannot understand or comprehend. “Son, I fail to see
why you cannot make an attempt to get along better with 
your little brother. “I still fail to see why my mother and
father cannot sit down face-to-face and have a reasonable
discussion and somehow get back together.” “I fail to see
how people would prefer to fight a war for going-on
more than thirty years rather than sitting down and making an agreement to live in peace forever.” *

Fail-safe 
Designed or considered to be absolutely safe and secure;
cannot break down. “The ship. Titanic, was designed to
be fail-safe, but it sank on its first, maiden voyage.” “Nuclear reactors must be built to be fail-safe to protect the
surrounding environment from nuclear radiation.”
“Space rockets are designed to be fail-safe to protect the
lives of the scientists encapsulated inside the space module, but time has shown that not even fail-safe plans are
always entirely safe.” *

Faint-hearted 
Weak-hearted; afraid to face anything; afraid to start behaving with courage and conviction; weak attempt with
little heart. “Sissy is so faint-hearted and unsure of herself that she can hardly speak in front of others.” “Aunt
Caroline did not want to help us raise funds for our charity, so she made only a fainthearted attempt before giving
up altogether.” “Going to work in an oilfield that is in
danger of being bombed and set on fire is not for the
faint-hearted.” *

Fair and square 
Honest and upright. “A moral and upright individual
should always be fair and square in his dealings with
other people.” “One of the Freemason’s practices is that
everything they do in life should always be on the fair
and square.” “Even a king, no matter how great his
power, should always be fair and square in his every action.” *

Fair or foul 
Good or evil. “Some people are willing to resort to any
means to get what they want, fair or foul.” “Those
damned Democrats will try to play every trick in the
book, fair or foul, to make the Republicans look bad.”
“The problem with the Republican Party Chairman is
that he will do anything within his means, fair or foul, to
get what is expedient for the party.” *

Fair to middling 
Average or a bit better. “If you ask me how I am, I have
to say that I am ‘fair to middling.’ Things are not bad but
they could be better as well.” “I saw uncle Arthur in the
hospital and his condition is fair to middling. It could
certainly be a lot worse, so we are glad that he is as well
as he is.” “The condition of the national economy may
be said to be fair to middling: there is no recession in
view and there are signs of gradual growth.” *

Fair weather friends 
Friends you have when everything is going well, but who
will not be there when you are in trouble. “When I was 
spending a lot of money, I had a lot of fair weather
friends, but now that my finances are limited I don’t have
any friends any more.” “When I had my yacht in Monte
Carlo, I had a lot of fair weather friends, in both senses
of the word, but after the bank reclaimed the yacht, I
found myself friendless and alone in the dark.” “Fair
weather friends arise out of conditions: when the conditions are right such friends find themselves together at
the same time in the same place, but when the conditions
and factors that brought them together change, the conditions of the past are forever altered and can never come
back together again.” *

Fake a headache 
Pretend you have a headache when you don’t want to do
something. “My wife always fakes a headache every time
I want to have sex.” “Whenever we ask Jennie to help us
grading the exam papers, she always fakes a headache.”
“In the office, when I have been working on the computer too long and need a break, I fake a headache and
tell my colleagues that I’m going to step out for a breath
of fresh air.” *

Fake check 
A check written without enough money in the bank to
cover it. “I pacified my ex-wife, temporarily at least, by
writing a fake check.” “They say the only thing a fake or
rubber check will buy is time.” “Ken paid me for the car
with a fake check and drove off into the distance, without
remembering he had forgotten to also take the registration papers.”*

Fall all over yourself 
Make a show of doing whatever it takes to appear
friendly and please others. “When Aunt Caroline comes
visiting, my falls all over herself to try and please her and
be a good hostess.” “Our Public Relations Director is an
expert at falling all over herself and bending over backwards; she’ll do anything within her power to please incoming clients and visitors.” “When the Regional Supervisor visits our office, our manager is falling all over
himself with friendliness, but after his distinguished visitor leaves, he goes back to being his plain, old, everyday,
miserable self.” *

Fall back on 
To keep something in reserve for when it is needed. “I
always keep a cash reserve of a hundred thousand to fall
back on in case of any emergency.” “Even in the earliest
ancient Indic texts, one finds the proverb that one should
try to put something extra aside to fall back on in case of
hard times.” “Roger tells me he has never touched a
penny of his old age pension but lets it accumulate in the
bank just in case he needs something to fall back on if he
lives to a very old age.” *

Fall by the wayside 
Stray away from the path and not continue going on 
ahead like the others. “On the road to fame and success
many reach the pinnacle but many more fall by the wayside and do not progress.” “All my old school buddies
graduated from college and had successful careers, except for my friend Mitch who was a lazy son-of-a bitch.”
“On the Children’s Crusade to the Holy Land, many poor
kids fell by the wayside where they were eaten by wild
tigers and wolves.” *

Fall flat 
Fail to entertain; fail to please; fail to be accepted. “Orange marketing-planners proposed a advertising campaign picturing monkeys talking on mobile phones, but
the plan fell flat.” “The Clinton’s Medical Health Care
plan was a good idea, but it fell flat due to establishment
opposition.” “Martin is always telling what he thinks are
clever jokes to get everyone’s attention, and he can never
understand why his attempts fall flat.” *

Fall flat on your face 
Just as a comedian may fall flat on his face, so we say we
fell flat on our face when we failed miserably in an attempt. “When I asked Sylvana for a date, she just
laughed at me, and I fell flat on my face.” “I offered myself as a candidate for election, but my party rejected the
idea, and I fell flat on my face.” “Your plan is a good
idea, and that is why the old established Congressmen
will not accept it. If you try to present it as a bill for legislation, you will fall flat on your face.” *

Fall for a line 
Believe a lie or con man’s story. “To hand someone a
line is a lie, a false story. “To fall for a line is to believe a
false story.” “We also say we are stringing someone a
line, as though unraveling twine in a long string of lies to
lead the other person on, hoping that he falls for the
line.” “Don’t give me tat old line! I’m not going to fall
for an old line like that! I’m not stupid you know!”*

Fall for it 
Be taken-in by a trick; to believe an incredible lie or
story. “Don’t think I’ll fall for that old story. I’ve heard it
too many times before to be silly enough to fall for it
again.” “I fell for your father’s empty promises when I
first met him.” “The traveling Bible salesman handed me
a line, that by paying sixty-nine dollars down and a dollar
a week for thirty weeks I could get religion, and I fell for
it.” *

Fall guy 
The person who has to take the blame when something
goes wrong so the real person or persons responsible remains in the background and protected. “Sometimes, local politicians bring a foreign administrative coordinator
into a large-scale construction project just to have a convenient fall guy to blame if ever their shady dealings
should come to light.” “The CIA director was chosen to
be the fall guy when nobody could explain who was responsible for torturing foreign prisoners.” “The Minister
of Foreign Affairs was chosen as the fall guy to take the
blame for the Tunnel affair, while each of the other
Cabinet Ministers sighed a breath of relief at being able
to retain his chair.” *

Fall in with 
Begin associating with or become friends with wrong
sort of people and begin behaving like them. “When Ted
was a teenager, he fell in with the wrong sort of crowd at
the local poolroom and two or three times he woke up in
the morning behind bars.” “If you female students go to
bars and nightclubs, it is very easy for them to fall in
with the sort of people who can corrupt them, especially
with regard to sex and drugs.” “My son, Chris, fell in
with the wrong sort of crowd while he was studying in
Liverpool, and for a while, I was afraid that he’d end up
in jail, but after he graduated, that all changed and now
he’s running with a better sort of crowd.” *

Fall into step 
Come into line and follow the expectations of others. “If
you don’t fall into step and follow the others in obeying
regulations, we’ll throw you out on your ear.” “Just as
soldiers have to fall into step when marching, so individuals in society are expected to fall into step and behave and conform like everybody else.” “Some people
have a tendency to fall into step, and some have a tendency to step out of line. I think that stepping out of line
is just fine.” *

Fall on deaf ears 
With no one listening to what is said or suggested. “Environmentalist protests to the government about the ozone
level are falling on deaf ears.” “For years, astrologists
have been warning about the immanent end of the world,
but, so far, their warnings have been falling on deaf
ears.” “I have been pleading with my husband for years
to help me out of my sense of psychological isolation,
but, so far, my pleas have been falling on deaf ears.” *

Fall on hard times 
Go from having enough money to being poor and almost
penniless. “My Granddaddy was a rich plantation owner,
but, now, after three generations, the family has fallen on
hard times.” “It often happens that a rich man will fall on
hard times and lose all his money, but then start over
again and get rich again.” “Randolph Hurst was one of
the richest and most powerful men in California in his
heyday, but, later, due to his own weaknesses, he met his
demise and fell on hard times.” *

Fall on your feet 
Just as a cat falls on its feet, so we may say a person falls
on his feet when he has the good luck to survive a fall in
life or fortune. “Don’t worry about your Daddy, Dear.
Whenever he has a fall in fortune, he always manages to
land on his feet.” “Some thieves always seem to land on 
their feet and live to commit countless crimes on other
days, but landing on your feet does not mean you will
escape the effects of bad karma and ultimate defeat.”
“During the financial crisis, my father’s business was
threatened with bankruptcy, but, fortunately, with the
help of a good banker, a little luck, and a lot of hard
work, we have managed to fall on our feet.” *

Fall out with someone 
Have a disagreement and no longer be friends. “Rodger
and I fell out with one another due to his habit of being
overly-argumentative, quarrelsome and obstreperous.”
“Good friends often fall out with one another due to disagreements about money; that’s why it’s never good to
mix friendship and money.” “The leaders of the political
coalition have fallen out with one another regarding proposed alliances with the far left, and that is why government majority control appears to be falling apart.” *

Fall prey to 
Just as a mouse might fall prey to a hawk that swoops
down and take it in its claws, so we may say that weak of
vulnerable person falls prey to. “I think I am so street
smart, but every once in a while even I fall prey to tricksters due to my goodness of heart.” “Never let an innocent young country girl venture alone into the big city
where she will be very likely to fall prey to the wolves of
the urban jungle.” “Little old ladies sitting outside on
their front porches on Sundays often fall prey to Bible
salesmen who want nothing more than to take financial
advantage of them.” *

Fall through 
Fail to materialize or to succeed as planned. “My application to the bank for a loan has unfortunately fallen
through, and, now, I don’t know where to turn for
money.” “The planned legislation Aid Package to provide help and assistance for the rural poor has fallen
through in Parliament, so, now, there’s nothing left for
the demonstrators to do but go home.” “The final Appeal
to the Supreme Court Justice for a stay of execution has
fallen through and the prisoner will be electrocuted at
midnight.” *

Fall to your knees 
Go down on your knees to beg. “I’m falling on my knees
and asking you to marry me.” “He fell on his knees and
begged the Emperor’s forgiveness.” “In the ancient East,
if you did not fall to your knees in obeisance before a
nobleman, he would cut off your legs at the knees.” *

Fallen idol 
Just as a statue of an ancient king or god can crumble and
fall, so a present-day-person whom everyone looks-up-to
can crash and fall due to shame and scandal. “President
Bill Clinton was idealized by clean-living American
youth, but after the Monica Lewinski scandal, he became
a fallen idol.” “After it became clear that JFK had been 
having illicit love affairs, in the eyes of many people, he
became a fallen idol.” “Michael Jackson was top of the
pops and everybody’s darling, but after all the bad publicity about sexual child abuse, he became a fallen idol.”
*
Fallen on hard times Lost all one’s money; no longer able to help oneself;
having fallen lower in social station; once better off, but
now in a worse position; barely able to provide for oneself. “In China, we met a former noblewoman who had
lost everything after the revolution and had fallen on hard
times.” “I used to be a well-to-do lawyer with a high income, but I had to retire early and have fallen on hard
times.” “After the bottom fell out of the market, Lee lost
all his money and fell on hard times.” *

Falling apart 
The feeling that everything is going to pieces psychologically. “Steve has lost is job, his house and his wife,
and his whole life is falling apart.” “Carole is all confused and emotionally imbalanced about her role in the
marriage, and she is almost falling apart.” “After his divorce, Harry went through a difficult psychological period, during which his whole life seemed to be falling
apart, but, with time, he got back on his feet, and he is
OK now.” *

Falling star 
A star seen falling through the night sky may be taken as
a sign of good luck. “Over the bay, he could see a falling
star coming down through the sky towards him, and he
took it as an omen that it would change his luck in the
future.” “They say that if you can catch a falling star and
make a wish that you will get anything you want,”
“Catch a falling star and put it in your pocket. Never let it
go-away, because one day it will bring you the luck to
get you to where you want to go and where you want to
stay.” *

Falling to pieces 
Breaking apart due to pressure; having a nervous breakdown; coming apart at the seams. “My marriage is falling
to pieces and I’m becoming a psychological wreck.”
“I’m so stressed-out due to emotional pressure that I’m
falling to pieces.” “I’m coming apart at the seams, and
everything is falling to pieces, and I don’t know how to
put my life back together again.” *

Fallout 
Just as there is radio-active fallout from the atmosphere
after a nuclear explosion, so we may say that a bad political situation may have some negative fallout. “There
is bound to be a lot of fallout when the public learns that
the media is paid to propagate hidden propaganda
schemes.” “There is going to be a lot of political fallout
about the Illuminist Conspiracy affair.” “There is going
to be a lot of fallout in the CIA hearings when the public 
learns about the role of American operatives in their trading in drugs behind the scenes.” *

False alarm 
An alarm that is based on a false report. “There was a
bomb scare in our school this morning, but it was based
on a false alarm.” “At first the media was reporting a giant meteor would collide with the earth, but, later on,
they said it was a false alarm.” “Often terrorist tactics are
used to create fear of devastating attacks, when the only
real fear is based on the public’s reaction to what are
only false alarms.” *

False modesty 
Pretending to be humble and unassuming when you are
really not. “Don’t pretend that you are not aware of how
clever you are. We can see through your false modesty.”
“She says she thinks that she is not pretty, but I know her
statement is based on a cultural sense of false modesty.”
“If false modesty is, by definition, a lie, why can a cultural lie based on false modesty be acceptable to any society?” *

False move 
Do something wrong that will put you in trouble. “I’ll
give you a second chance, but if I ever see you make
even one false move again, then, you are out of here.”
“The problem with being an auditor is that If they catch
you making even just one false move they can take away
your license.” “Stop! Put your hands up! One false move
and I will shoot!”*

False pride 
Pride based on a false evaluation of self. “Being insulted
out of a sense of false pride is based on pure ignorance
and self-delusion.” “Having an over-inflated view of
your self based on false pride can be very painful when
the balloon-of-false-view hits the ground and pops.”
“False pride has provoked many a harsh and hurtful word
to be spoken, the reaction to which, in due course, has
caused many a swelled-head to be bashed in and broken.” *

Familiarity breeds contempt
When you get up close to someone and get to know his
weaknesses, you lose your former sense of respect and
admiration and tend to look down on him as not being as
perfect as you thought he was before. “One of the problems with the close intimacy of marriage is that familiarity breeds contempt.” “Never let yourself get too close to
the servants, because, invariably, familiarity breeds contempt.” “Never try to be pals with the enlisted men under
your command because familiarity breeds contempt.” *

Fancy dress ball 
Formal black suit and tie/evening gown dance or affair or
gala occasion. “Every one in high society gets all dressed
up once a year for the local fancy dress ball on the fourth
of July.” “In Vienna, once a year, there is a fancy dress
ball which id attended by anybody who is anybody in the 
German-speaking part of Europe.” “After the conference
has ended, on the final night of activities, there will be a
fancy dress ball to which all the members and their wives
are invited.” *

Fancy free 
With absolutely no ties and totally free to do whatever
one wishes. “I’m unmarried and unemployed without any
responsibility and so I’m absolutely fancy free.” “Now
that I am retired with money in the bank, I am fancy free
to do whatever I want with my time.” “When you are
married with children, you sometimes want to be fancy
free, but those who are free and alone are often lonely.” *

Fancy someone 
To have a liking for a person of the opposite sex. “I fancy
that new girl in the office. I’d like to go out on a date
with her.” “I fancy Freddy’s wife, but I’m afraid she does
not fancy me!” “I know that my boss fancies me but
there’s no way I’d ever start doing any hanky panky with
someone in my own office.”*

Fancy that! 
Just imagine that; it’s hard to believe; hard to conceive!
“The Socialists won the election. Fancy that!” “It snowed
in Spain on the fifth of July! Fancy that!” “They could
not even find one virgin in the French court to perform in
the ceremony. Fancy that!” *

Far cry from 
Nowhere near the intended expectation. “Democracy
may be a far cry from being perfect, but it is still the best
that system that we have.” “I know I’m a far cry from
being the ideal husband, but at least, I’m trying my best.”
“The sum of the donations was a far cry from what was
expected, but, at least, the money went to charitable
cause.” *

Far-fetched 
Hard to believe because it is so fanciful; implausible.
“Don’t you think the idea of having manned-space centers on Mars is a bit far-fetched?” “Your excuse that being chased-up a tree by a monkey made you late for
school sounds a bit far-fetched, but, this time, I’ll give
you the benefit of the doubt.” “The hypothesis that Francis Bacon wrote Shakespeare’s plays sounds a bit farfetched, but some scholars insist that they have found
evidence to prove their case.” *

Far-sighted 
Just as some people can see far off into the distance, so
some thinkers and leaders are said to be far-sighted in
making predictions and plans for the future. “The Buddha was very far-sighted when he said that men and
women were to be considered equal in the practice of
moral purity.” “The Provincial Government developed a
far-sighted, long-range, educational plan to prepare to
meet the needs of students who had not yet even been
born.” “Nostradamus was a far-sighted visionary who,
hundreds of years ago, predicted the violent conflicts and 
eruptions of the twenty-first century.” *

Fast and furiously Very quickly and recklessly with heedless abandon. “He
is acting recklessly and spending money fast and furiously as though there were no tomorrow.” “The economy
is declining so fast and furiously that the bottom may
drop out any day now.” “Corruption is developing so fast
and furiously that, soon, the only thing you will be able
to get without paying a bribe is a postage stamp.” *

Fast lane 
Just as cars pass in the fast lane on the highway, so some
people like to say they are living in the fast lane in their
private and business lives. “Living in the fast lane brings
rewards but it also brings pains.” “I’m on my way to success moving away ahead of all the others in the fast
lane.” “You can only move in the fast lane as long as you
are young and strong. It’s a place where the old and feeble wouldn’t last long.” *

Fast on the draw 
Just as a cowboy gunslinger can be fast on the draw, so
we may say a person is quick to respond when challenged verbally or put on the spot. “A man who can reply
immediately, with a quick, clever answer, when challenged is said to be quick on the draw.” “Someone who
is capable of making a quick quip is said to be fast on the
draw.” “A good defense lawyer must be able to think
quickly and be fast on the draw in the art of countercross-questioning.” *

Fast talk 
Talking quickly to try to confuse the other person and get
out of trouble. “Stop all your lying fast talk and makingup excuses. Slow down and tell me in detail exactly what
happened” “Don’t give me any fast talk. I can see
through all that jive. Just slow down and tell me the truth
for a change.” “Girls soon learn the difference between
men on whom they can depend to mean what they say
and those who only depend on making an impression
with a lot of loose, fast talk.” *

Fast-track 
Just as you can fast track your tape deck to play your
cassettes forward, so we say someone is in the fast track
when he will be speedily promoted up the line of management. “After Evelyn got her doctorate, she was put on
the fast track by the administration to work her way
quickly towards becoming Dean.” “When there is a war
with a lot of casualties, officers are on a fast track to
promotion whether they want it or not.” *

Fat chance! 
No hope! No likelihood! No way! Impossible! “Don’t
ask me to lie. I’m not going to lie for you under any circumstances. Fat chance!” “There’s no way I’m going to
write your essay for you. Fat chance! That’s cheating!”
“No way! Hell would freeze over before I would ever
trust you. Fat chance! You are asking for too much.” * 

Fat lip 
A thick lip from being punched in the mouth. “If you
don’t shut up right now, I’ll punch you in the mouth and
give you a fat lip.” “Charlie sometimes turns up at the
office on Monday with a fat lip after he has been having
a fight with his wife.” “If you don’t want to get a fat lip, I
would advise you not to butt in where you do not belong.” *

Fatal attraction 
Being attracted to something in a way that will cause
harm or even death. “Charlie seems to have a fatal attraction to women who are going to harm him.” “Anthony
could not resist the fatal attraction of Cleopatra and his
falling hopelessly in love with her eventually caused his
ruin.” “The goddess Venus can change herself into a
mortal woman and with her fatal attraction, charm any
man living into doing anything she wants.” *

Fatal error 
Just as a mistake may result in mortal death, so a mistaken strategy may result in human failure or even worse.
“If you try to mess with me, you are making a fatal error.
I would as soon kill you as look at you.” “The American
President’s fatal error was in assuming that control of the
price of oil was more valuable than the lives of American
troops.” “Where Tony Blair made his fatal error was in
letting himself be talked-into the idea of establishing a
New World Order.” *

Fate worse than death 
Something that can happen to you that you would consider to be worse than death. “I swear that being married
to you is a fate worse than death. “At least with death,
the suffering would be over, but accumulating bad karma
in this life is a fate worse than death that can go on for
ever.” “The idea of being perpetually racked with the excruciating pains of death in the fires of Hell is a fate
worse than death.”*

Father figure 
Someone we look up to as a father and role model.
“Many young women who did not have a father when
they were growing-up feel attracted to an older man in a
position of trust as a father figure.” “Prof. Carlson has
been a father figure to many young people who lacked a
warm family environment when they were young.” “Carl
Jung was a father figure to the close circle he entrusted to
write down his ideas and explain them in books to the
world.” *

Fathom the depths 
Search as deep down into a topic as possible; look into
the depths of your mind. “We shall have to fathom the
depths of our minds and search to find the source of this
deep and depressing psychological problem.” “Tobias is
attempting to fathom the depths of his mind to analyze if
there is still any hidden resentment there against his
mother.” “It seems to be impossible for man to fathom
the depths of the god-question because its boundaries
exceed beyond the limits reachable by the human mind.”*

Feast or famine 
Either too much or too little. “Either we have much too
much work all at once or much too little for a long time.
It’s either feast or famine.” “In our business, it is either
feast or famine, with either too many orders to deal with
or none at all.” “We are either making a whole lot of
money all at once or we are going through a dry period
waiting for opportunity to come. It’s either feast or famine.” *

Feather in your cap 
Just as the old hunters used to put a rare feather in their
hat band to show their accomplishment, so nowadays, we
say a person deserves a feather in his cap for something
he has done or accomplished. “Eileen deserves a feather
in her cap for the way she took care of the family when
Mom was in the hospital.” “Prof. Clark deserves a
feather in his cap for all the years he has struggled to setup and to establish new national standards of educational
achievement.” “Captain Rodgers deserves a feather in his
cap for the way he led his troops in the attack that cut the
rebel forces in two so the fighting would stop and,
thereby, save a lot of human lives on both sides.” *

Feather your nest 
Get and set aside money for the future, bit-by-bit, the
way a bird feathers her nest. “Corrupt politicians pick up
payoffs here and there, along the way, with which to
feather their nests hoping they will be well-provided for
in the future.” “Pam told me that she was setting ten percent of her salary aside to feather her nest in case she
ever found herself in need or in distress.” “It is good to
be able to feather your nest for the future, but do it as a
sparrow should and not as a vulture would.” *

Fed-up with 
Bored with; tired or; can’t stand it any more; “I’m fed-up
with the way you are always lying and taking advantage
of me.” “I’ve had enough of this boring job and I’m fedup to the teeth with it.” “I’m fed up fed-up with the way
my boss has been treating me and I’m not going to pit up
with it any more.” *

Feel like death warmedover
Feel like a corpse that has been brought back to life; feel
terrible, usually because of a hangover. “Last night I
drank a whole bottle of tequila and today, I feel like
death warmed over.” “Slick woke up feeling like death
warmed over and swore he would never ever mix drugs
and drink again.” “After three days of malarial fever, the
feeble and hungry monk emerged from out of the darkness of the cave feeling and looking like death warmed
over.” *

Feeble excuse Weak explanation as justification. “Saying that the dog 
ate your homework is a feeble excuse.” “Saying that the
woman touched you first is a feeble excuse. Why didn’t
you tell her you were a married man?” “Don’t give me
any feeble excuse laying the blame on someone else.
Take the blame yourself and be a man!” *

Feeble-minded 
Simple minded; weak in the brain; dim-witted. “Uncle
Geordie is a little bit feeble-minded but nobody seems to
be bothered because he is always smiling and good natured.” “We had a little brother who was sickly and feeble-minded, but he died when he was seven.” “Saying
that a ghost stole your shoes is the most-feeble-minded
excuse that I have heard in years!” *

Feed someone a line 
Just as one feeds out a long line used to tow a boat, so we
may be said to feed some one a line of lies, leading him
on with deceptive intent. “Don’t feed me that old line.
I’ve heard that lie a thousand times before already.”
“Please don’t feed me the line that if I accept you, you
will never look at another woman in your life. That’s
what all men say.” “Don is feeding Linda a line that one
day he will inherit a huge fortune, but he’s lying through
his hat and using her greed to get what he wants.” *

Feed to the wolves 
Just as one may feed meat to wolves, so one may be said
to allow a person to be open to attack from his enemies.
“Government is a dirty business in which politicians will,
first, use you for their own ends and, then, feed you to
the wolves when they do not need you an “If you betray
a one-time-friend by exposing his confidences and secrets to the press, this is a good example of feeding
someone to the wolves.” “When I had lots of money to
spend, I had lots of friends and gave lots of parties and
banquets for them to attend, but now that I am broke they
don’t care and would just as soon feed me to the
wolves.” *

Feeding frenzy 
Just as a school of flesh-eating piranha fish will go into a
feeding frenzy if they are fed fresh flesh, so, for example,
the press may be said to go on a feeding frenzy when it
gets a hot, juicy story and wants to get and spread the
news as soon as possible.” “When the media got news
about the Monica Lewinski affair with the President, they
had an absolute feeding frenzy.” “Whenever there is a
juicy scandal in Hollywood, multitudes of reporters from
movie magazines go on an uncontrolled feeding frenzy.”
“Whenever the members of the press are informed of any
of Michael Jackson’s new sexual escapades with children, they go on a feeding frenzy that lasts until the very
last nibble of news is gone.” *

Feed off of 
Just as a parasite feeds off the host plant or animal, so
some people are said to feed off others. “Just as parasites 
feed off of host animals in nature, so, in society, we see
people who are parasites living off of others.” “Doris has
got this pretty, young tomboy living with her who feeds
off of her like a parasite.” “I don’t care if you are my sister! Get out of my house! I am tired of you and your family feeding off of me like a bunch of parasites.” *

Feel free 
Do what you like; feel free to do whatever you want; go
ahead and do what ever you please. “Make yourself at
home and feel free to do as you please.” “I disagree with
your decision, but feel free to do as you like.” “I want to
be able to feel free to do what I want, where I want, and
when I want” *

Feel it in your bones 
Know something intuitively or through some sixth sense.
“It’s going to rain. I can feel it in my bones.” “That man
is not to be trusted. I can feel it in my bones.” “Some terrible catastrophe is going to happen. I can feel it in my
bones.” *

Feel like a million! 
Feeling really great; couldn’t be better! “I am feeling
really great today! I’m feeling like a million!” “Now that
I have changed my medicine, I feel like a totally new
man. I feel like a million!” “You look very beautiful today. If you feel like you look you must feel like a million!” *

Feel like doing something
In the mood to do something. “I know what you want me
to do, but I don’t feel like doing it just now.” “Whenever
I feel like doing something naughty and nasty, I try to
overcome the urge.” “I feel like doing something to indulge myself, but my better-judgment tells me to control
myself.” *

Feel no remorse 
Without any sense of guilt, shame or regret. “Because the
defendant felt no remorse for killing his own, helpless,
invalid mother, the judge handed-down the maximum
penalty of death by hanging.” “The defendant feels no
remorse for the crimes he has committed and he feels no
fear of punishment by death.” “I feel no remorse for the
sins I have committed because life has made me pay for
every mistake I have ever made and taught me not to
make the same mistakes again.” *

Feel out of place 
Having a sense that one does not belong in a certain
group or location; a sense of being either socially or economically or otherwise above or below one’s station; being wholly different from those surrounding you. “I feel
out of place at society parties because I am just a simple
country girl at heart.” “Doug felt highly uncomfortable
and certainly out of place while visiting a gay bar where
his gay colleagues liked to hang out.” “Because I am
only a secretary, I always feel a bit out of place sitting at
the same conference table with a lot of big, high-powered 
corporate business executives.” *

Feel put off 
Feel a loss of appetite or desire for. “When people talk
bout dirty or smelly things when I’m eating, it puts me
off my appetite.” “Thinking of how they kill animals before we eat then makes me fee a little put off my food
when I see there is meat in a dish.” “I don’t know why
but I always feel put off sex when I see a girl wearing
jeans. Maybe it’s because jeans make girls look like
boys.” *

Feel sorry for someone 
Feel pity for someone; feel empathy; feel understanding
and compassion. “I feel sorry for all those people in
Bangladesh who get flooded out of house and home
every year.” “When you tell me about all you have been
through, I feel sorry for you.” “You will never feel sorry
for others when you are so busy feeling sorry for yourself.” *

Feel the pinch 
Suffering from lack of money in an economically-tight
situation. “Everyone is short of cash and feeling the
pinch of the economic recession.” “Ever since the cost of
fuel went up, taxi drivers have been feeling the pinch.”
“Ever since I lost the extra income from my part-time
job, I have been feeling the pinch a bit.” *

Feel up to it 
Strong and able and willing and motivated to something.
“When I feel up to it, I’m going to clean my room and
wash and iron my clothes.” “If you feel up to it, you
could do the family a favor and drive us to Manchester”.
“When I’m feeling stronger, and when I’m feeling more
up to it, I’m going to paint the house.” *

Feel used 
Have the feeling that someone has taken advantage of
you or your help. “Women often feel used when a man
simply takes what he wants from them and instead of being appreciative, throws them away.” “Being cooperative
is a good quality, but it often leads to a helpful person
being used by others to satisfy their selfish needs.” “She
stayed with me until she had enough money to go out and
start her own business, and, then, she just left me alone
and feeling used.” *

Feeling crushed 
Feeling hurt, let down, disappointed or humiliated; having one’s feelings hurt; feeling injured by what someone
said or did. “Sarah felt crushed when her best girlfriend
stole her boyfriend.” “After all the good things I have
done for you over the years, I feel crushed that you are
leaving me for a younger woman.” “The Prime Minister
and his party are feeling crushed because they didn’t get
enough votes to get re-elected and control parliament.” *

Feeling edgy 
Feeling touchy, oversensitive, jittery, jumpy; on-edge,
nervous, anxious, easily-aroused. “I’m feeling particularly over-sensitive and edgy, these days. I’m very jittery 
and ready to jump at the slightest provocation.” “When I
forget to take my medication, I find myself getting tense
and feeling edgy.” “Our supervisor is feeling on edge
because top management is pushing her to finish our report three days before the due deadline.” *

Feeling fit 
Having a sense of being healthy, robust, in good shape.
“Running ten kilometers a day keeps me feeling fit and
helps me stay slim and trim.” “After a weekend of
swimming and tennis and lots of sleep, I came back to
Bangkok feeling very fit.” “I’m feeling fit this morning: I
feel I could run in a long-distance marathon race.” *

Feeling frustrated 
Feeling upset and thwarted, annoyed and bothered, when
things do not go your way. “Men often feel frustrated
when they do not get their way with women.” “I am feeling frustrated because I cannot get my students to take
their studies seriously.” “The masses are feeling frustrated because they see the established elite doing what
benefits them and ignoring the benefit of the people.” *

Feeling good vibes 
Experiencing good vibrations means you are tuned-in to
the same emotions and wave lengths as another person
and that there is an unspoken bond between you. “I always smoked a joint with Annie, because, when we got a
little high, we felt good vibes together.” “At a big rock
concert, the music often makes everybody in the audience share the same good vibes.” “There, sitting alone
together on the white, sandy beach watching the sunset,
we were felling good vibes that drew us towards one another and made us feel at one with the world.” *

Feeling jumpy 
Feeling nervous and on edge. “I’m feeling a little jumpy
today because my nerves are so on edge. I’d better calm
myself down and try to maintain mindfulness.” “Don’t be
so jumpy. Why do you get startled so easily? What are
you afraid of?” “I’ve been feeling really jumpy lately,
and I fear it may be a sign of on-coming paranoiac disorder.” *

Feeling let-down 
Feeling disappointed in someone you trusted and depended upon. “I’m feeling a little let-down because my
housekeeper has just left me, taking with her one year’s
advance salary I had paid her on trust.” “Mother is feeling let-down because everyone has gone off for the
weekend and left her at home alone to do all the work on
her own.” “After all the trust I placed in you, I must admit that I am feeling a little let-down that you acted
against me behind my back.” *

Feeling mellow 
Feeling in a fully calm, placid, mature, ripe, rich and satisfied mood. “While sitting here on the carpet with you
before the warmth of the fire, sipping a class of fine
wine, I am feeling very mellow.” “Granddad was a little 
up-tight before he got to the party, but after eating a good
Christmas dinner and drinking a couple of brandies, he is
now is feeling mellow.” “Grandmother was a frustrated,
agitated, irritable woman while Granddad was still alive,
but since moving in with her oldest daughter’s family
and feeling the kindness and warmth of fellowship there,
for the first time in her life, she is starting to relax and
feeling a bit mellow.” *

Feeling out-of-sorts 
Feeling ill or unwell; not feeling well. “I am feeling outof-sorts today, so I’m going to take the day off work.”
“The boss is feeling out-of-sorts and in a bad mood, so I
would not approach him on any sensitive topic today if I
were you.” “I convey apologies from my wife who is
feeling out-of-sorts and will be unable to attend the dinner party this evening.” *

Feeling rocky 
With a hangover, as if one has drunk to much scotch on
the rocks is feeling unsteady on one’s feet, uneasy and
queasy in the stomach with an ache like splitting rocks in
the head.

Feeling the crunch 
Just as a nutcracker crushes a nut using physical pressure, so people are said to feel the crunch of financial
pressure. “After the financial crisis, there was very little
cash flow, and everybody was feeling the financial
crunch.” “The rising cost of fuel is affecting consumer
spending and retail businesses across the nation are feeling the crunch.” “The government is feeling the crunch
of financial pressure due to the necessity of paying off
the huge national debt.” *

Feeling under the weather
Not feeling well; feeling sick and unwell. “Mother is
feeling under the weather today and is going to stay in
bed.” “Please in form Human Resources that I am feeling
under the weather and that I will not be coming into work
today.” “We regret to inform you that our guest speaker
is feeling under the weather and cannot come this evening, so his deputy director has been asked to speak in
his stead.” *

Feeling woozy 
Feeling dizzy, unsteady and faint on your feet as if in a
swoon. “When I stand up too fast I always feel woozy
and have to catch my balance.” “When I first stood up
out of my hospital bed, I was feeling a little woozy at
first, but, after I took a few steps, the feeling of wooziness left my head.” “Whenever Carole rides in a boat, at
first, she feels a little woozy in her head, then, nauseous
in her stomach and, finally, so seasick she has to vomit
everything up.” *

Feeling your way forwards
Just as one feels one’s way forwards in total darkness, so
one may say one is feeling one’s way forwards in a totally new and unaccustomed situation where one needs 
some time to get orientated and on the right path. “I’m a
little lost in my new job, but I’m feeling my way forwards and slowly getting the hang of things.” “After being named the new dean to a old campus that was unknown to him, Bill had to feel his way forwards in the
dark and try to get the lay of the land without people seeing his weaknesses and losing confidence in him.” “The
relationship between the two diplomats was a bit unsteady at first, but after feeling their way forwards in the
dark for a while, they got to know and trust one another
and then negotiations got off to an encouraging start.” *

Fender bender 
A car accident that puts a dent in your fender. “I borrowed Dad’s new BMW and had a fender bender, and
now he is sorry he loaned it to me.” “The problem with
driving in Bangkok is that, traffic being the way it is,
sooner or later, you are bound to have a fender bender.”
“When you calculate the transportation costs for running
your own car, in addition to fuel and maintenance and
insurance, you also have to factor-in the odd fender
bender.” *

Few and far between 
Very seldom; rarely found; unusual. “Everyone will tell
you he is trustworthy, but those you can really trust are
few and far between.” “There are many Buddhists in this
country but people who can see the true Dhamma are few
and far between.” “Every corporate employer will promise new staff members the chance for advancement, but
those who actually follow such a policy are few and far
between.” *

Fib your way out 
Tell lies to get yourself out of trouble; lie your way out
of a situation. “One of the first things that children learn
is to fib their way out of a situation.” “The boss says that
if we want to remain unpunished, we shall have to fib our
way out of the situation.” “Even the government is not
above fibbing its way out of a compromising situation
when necessity dictates.” *

Fickleness of fate 
Unpredictability of fortune/chance; capriciousness;
changeable. “It is due to the fickleness of fate that we can
never be sure if we will still be living an hour from now.”
“It was the fickleness of fate that put me at the wheel of
my car on the ice on the road in front of that big tree in
Germany that demolished my big BMW and almost
killed me.” “It was also the fickleness of fate that brought
me to this country. I came here dependent on a whim of
chance, due to a set of circumstances that was not determined by me.” *

Fiddle around/about 
Fooling about with something with your fingers or sitting
about making it look like you are doing something active
when you are just being nervous. “Stop sitting in the 
meeting room at the table t fiddling with your pencil all
the time. It is making everybody nervous.” “When you
are giving a presentation, remember not to fiddle with
your necktie or jewelry because it will be distracting to
your listeners.” “All our secretaries spend their days just
sitting about and fiddling around doing very little actual
work.” *

Fiddle someone out of something
Cheat someone out of something. “Be careful of the
street hawkers. They have years of experience at fiddling
innocent people out of their money.” “There was once a
dishonest shopkeeper in Soho who was an expert at fiddling customers out of their money by distracting them in
conversation whilst doing a fast-change-shuffle when
giving back their change.” “There was this English guy
in Pattaya who supposedly earned his living helping foreigners place their life-savings in so-called offshore accounts and investments, when the truth of the matter was
that he was just trying to fiddle them out of their hardearned money.” *

Fidget about 
Move nervously and restlessly without being able to keep
still. “Stop pounding your fingers and fidgeting about!
Calm yourself. Your nervousness makes me feel uncomfortable.” “Be a good boy and, sit still beside me and
don’t fidget about, or I’ll ask you to go out of the room.”
“Johnny! Hold still and stop fidgeting about, you little
monkey. You’re driving me crazy!” *

Fierce temper 
Violent, ferocious disposition; short-tempered and violent. “Dawn’s stepfather had a fierce temper and used to
fly into a rage and beat her for good no reason at all.”
“Ajarn Don had a fierce temper when he was younger
and used fly off the handle easily at the slightest provocation.” “An antidote that can be used to counterbalance
fierce temper is the calm of loving kindness.” *

Fight for your rights 
Stand up and demand and defend your human, civil
rights. “In America, in the 1960s, black people demonstrated successfully to fight for their civil rights under the
Kennedy administration.” “In the 1070s, women went to
the barricades to fight for their rights and demand equality with men.” “If you don’t stand up and fight for your
rights, it is unlikely that anyone is going to do it for you.”*

Fight it out 
Contest the issue or point until both sides are either satisfied or too worn-out to fight anymore. “When Bob and
Ted disagree on something, they fight it out until the one
with the weaker argument can’t defend himself anymore.” “Union leaders say they are prepared to fight it
out with management whatever the cost may be to the
shareholders.” “Some people say that the power elite is 
setting-up the Muslims to fight it out with the western
world in a war that will destroy both sides so that they
will have no power to fight anymore.” *

Fight tooth and nail 
Just as wild animals may be said to fight tooth and (claw
or) nail, so we may say people fight with all their might
to fight it out ferociously. “Back in the old days in Thailand, fierce, wild, forest tigers used to fight it out, tooth
and nail to assert dominance over their territory.” “Not so
long ago politicians used to fight it out tooth and nail to
assert who had dominance over certain territories.”
“Even today, behind the scenes, politicians within the
government are fighting it out tooth and nail to see who
gets control of what.” *

Fighting a losing battle 
Trying to accomplish the impossible; trying ineffectively
to change things. “Fighting corruption, all over the
world, is a losing battle. It always has always been and
always was.” “Trying to stop students from talking during class is a losing battle.” “Attempting to get people to
treat others as they would be treated themselves is a losing battle.” *

Fighting words 
Using words that are sure to cause an aggressive reaction
and cause a fight. “When you ask someone, ‘Do you
know who your father was?’ those are fighting words.”
“If you tell someone you think he has his ‘fingers in the
till,’ those are fighting words.” “One should be careful
never to allow anything to come out of one’s mouth that
could in any way be construed as fighting words.” *

Figment of the imagination
An illusion that exists only in a person’s mind and is only
imaginary. “That your wife may be in love with another
man is nothing more than a figment of your imagination.
Where do you get such ideas?” “The faeries that my son
talks to in the forest are only a figment of his imagination. It couldn’t possibly be true, could it?” “The Illuminati Conspiracy Theory is said to be nothing more than a
figment of the imagination.” *

Fill-in for someone 
Take someone’s place temporarily; cover for someone.
“Nurse Susan will fill in for me at the hospital on Monday night so I can take a three day holiday at the seaside.” “When the telephone receptionist in our office is
sick, someone else from the admin staff has to fill in for
her.” “I shall have to be in the hospital for twelve days,
and there is no one who can fill in for me and run the
business, so I’ll have to run the show from my hospital
bed.’ *

Filthy rich 
Having so much money that it makes common people
jealous. “Although John D. Rockefeller was filthy rich,
he was really stingy with his money.” “One day, I want
to be filthy rich and have a thousand hand-maidens to 
wait on me.” “The problem with being filthy rich is that
everyone will be envious of you and wish you ill-will.” *

Final straw 
Just as adding one final straw to a camel’s load might be
enough to break the camel’s back, so we can say that
when another person subjects us to one final insult or injury or imposition, that may become the point at which
he has gone too far and finally made you angry or lose
you patience or tolerance. “You’ve done a lot of bad
things to me in life, but stealing my inheritance is the final straw!” “After all the humiliating questions that I had
already been asked to answer, when the aid worker asked
if anyone else had been sleeping with my wife that was
the final straw!” “The Prime Minister said that he had
endured a lot of abuse from the press but their latest
statement that he was in the payoff big money players
was the final straw.” *

Financial crunch 
Just as nutcrackers can crunch a walnut, so sometimes
when financial pressure is hard, we say that we are feeling under financial pressure. “The rising cost of production in Thailand is causing the manufacturing sector to
feel the financial crunch.” “When the government favors
monopolies and privatization of utilities, the big guys
start to get rich quick and the little people begin feel the
financial crunch.” “After the Financial crisis, the banks
were all feeling the crunch. Now, that the banks are regaining their power by manipulating interest rates to
make the people feel the crunch.” *

Find fault with 
Look for mistakes to to criticize. “My husband is always
finding fault with me, and he is undermining my confidence.” “My teacher is always finding fault with me and
never encourages me, so the result is that I have no incentive to learn.” “Some people have the characteristic of
finding fault with everything and everybody without realizing that it is their way of seeing things that is at fault.”*

Find out about 
Inquire; look around for information; discover the fact(s).
“When Dad finds out I’ve had a fender bender with his
new BMW, he’ll go through the roof.” “Marilyn lived
with her step-parents for seven years thinking they were
her real mother and father until she found out that it
wasn’t true.” “The police are asking around on the street
to find out if there are any rumors that a big drug delivery is coming into town.” *

Find your bearings 
Just as a ship’s navigator must know his position and plot
his course, so we may say that a person has to find his
bearings when is in a strange, new position. “Sometimes,
when you take on a new job or appointment, it takes you
a while to find your bearings before you are fully able to 
cope with your duties.” “Now that I’ve lost my job and
given up the city house, it will take me a while to find
my bearings and decide how and where I want to spend
the rest of my life.” “When one becomes emotionally
lost, sometimes, it takes a while to find your bearings and
decide how you want to steer the course of your life.” *

Find your calling 
Become aware of your purpose in life; chose your profession or career path following an inner-urge to fulfill a
mission; as though it were pre-planned by destiny what
you should do with your life. “When Dale was twentyfive, he found that his calling was to be a teacher, and he
remained a teacher for the rest of his life.” “My school
friend Doug always said that from his very earliest years
he had felt the calling to become a Christian minister.”
“Some young men, even when they are studying in university, feel a calling to give up everything and become
Buddhist monks.” *

Fine and dandy 
Really good; great; excellent; wonderful. “I have fully
recovered from my operation, and, now, I’m feeling fine
and dandy.” “Your advice about my diet came in very
handy, and since I started following it, I’ve been feeling
fine and dandy.” “Mother was manic-depressive for
years, but, since her psychiatrist put her on a new, antidepressive drug, she’s been feeling fine and dandy.” *

Fine print 
The part of a contract that is written in very small print.
“If I’d read the fine print in my high-speed internet contract, I’d have known you have to give one year’s advance notice before you can cancel.” In my “When I
signed my home loan contract, I neglected to read the
fine print which said, if I defaulted in payment, I would
have to give up my rights to the property forthwith.”
“They say the devil id always in the details in the fine
print, so be careful never to sign a contract or agreement
without first reading the fine print.” *

Finger in the pie 
Taking part if an illegal deed; having a hand in some
money-making scheme; getting a share of an illegal
profit. “If there is any corruption going on at city hall,
you can be sure that the mayor has a finger in the pie.”
“Crooked politicians always like to have a finger in the
pie when any dirty deals are going on.” “I would not like
to get caught with my finger in the pie because it would
damage my reputation.” *

Finger-pointing 
Laying blame on someone; pointing out the faults of others; telling who committed an act. “In the Bangkok
night-life, underworld scene, finger-pointing and namecalling can make you dead very quickly.” “There has
been a lot of finger pointing about who is to blame for
the war in the Middle East.” “Let’s not have any finger-
pointing at this meeting. We are not here to lay blame;
we are here to solve the problem of how to get ourselves
out of this horrible mess.” *

Fingers-in-the-till 
Just as a shop attendant may be caught stealing money
from the cash register, so we may say a crooked official
or has been caught stealing appropriated funds. “It’s easy
to become corrupt when you have financial control of
other’s money, and no one can stop you from putting
your fingers in the till.” “The deputy financial officer
was caught with his fingers in the till and was asked to
give the money back, but I don’t think he will.” “The judicial penalty for putting your fingers in the till is fairly
light when compared to that of armed-robbery.” *

Finish someone off 
Finish killing someone who is not yet quite dead. “When
the bandits realized their victim was not quite dead, they
slit his throat to finish him off.” “When the killers heard
the victim groan and realized he was not yet dead, , they
bashed him on the skull a few times to finish him off.”
“In wartime, when they don’t want to take any prisoners,
they go around the battlefield to find those who are injured but not yet dead and mercilessly finish them off.” *

Fire-away 
Ask any questions you want and I’ll answer anything you
want to know. “OK. I’m ready to answer any question
put to me, so fire away.” Darling, I’ll tell you everything
about my past that you want to know. Just fire away.” “I
am not afraid of the questions of this Investigatory
Committee, so just fire away and tell me whatever you
want to know.” *

Fired-up 
All excited and enthusiastic and ready to go. “Before
each game, our football coach used to give us a pep talk
to get us all fired up and ready to give our best and put
on a good show.” “Amway managers hold frequent meetings with their sales personnel and present them with energetic speeches that get them all fired-up by thinking
they are going to be rich.” “What our reform party needs
on the campaign trail is a catchy neo-activist slogan that
will get the people all fired-up and make them vote for
us.” *

Firm resolve 
Strong determination. “If one wants to accomplish a
long-term goal, one must have firm resolve and make a
vigorous effort.” “Sir Winston Churchill had the firm resolve to lead the English nation to stand up to the threat
of Nazi occupation.” “If one wants to make progress in
meditation, one must have a firm resolve to persevere in
practicing the steps of the path leading to emancipation.”*

First come first served 
He who arrives first gets served first. “We are servicing
incoming visitors on a first come first served basis: those 
who arrive first will be served first.” “We are opening ur
doors at eight in the morning and will be processing applications on a first come first served basis.” “Emergency Medical Services will be provided on a first come
first served basis.” *

First impression 
The impression we make when we first see somebody.
“Try to appear trustworthy to make a good first impression when people are initially introduced to you.” “First
impressions are important because if your first impression doesn’t last, your fading image will disappear fast.”
“Making first impressions will be important for a young
man’s success, so he must learn to be heedful of how he
will speak and how he will dress.” *

First indication of 
First sign or symptom to appear. “My doctor told me that
at the first indication of chest pains, I should get myself
immediately to a hospital.” “Dale’s first noticeable indications of heart failure came when he used to get tired
just pushing his wagon around the supermarket.” “The
first indications of financial instability are starting to
show in the wavering fluctuations in the currency market.” *

First things first 
Follow priorities, starting with the most important point.
“Let me see if I can get the money together before we
discuss the building plans. First things first.” “Lets do
things one at a time, starting with first things first and
clearing away our financial debts before we go making
any long-range plans.” “The motto, ‘first things first,’
can also be taken to mean that you have to take care of
yourself and your family first before you begin trying to
take care of others.” *

First-hand experience 
Personal experience that can only be gotten by undergoing it oneself. “Bank knows from first hand experience
how it feels to be abused and beaten and battered as a
child.” “A military man who does not know the horrors
of war from first hand experience cannot be said to be a
true soldier.” “I happen to know from first hand experience what it feels like to separate the mind from bodily
pain.” *

First-name basis 
Knowing someone famous or important so well that you
call one another by your first names. “Monica and Bill
were on a first name basis, while everybody else had to
call Clinton, ‘Mr. President.’” “David Rockefeller and
George Bush Sr. are on a first name basis and have been
political allies for years.” “When I worked with KPMG
the big boss and I were on a first name basis and I called
him John.” *

Fiscal irresponsibility 
Using the annual financial budget in a negligent manner.
“Dean John F. Parr was fired for supposed financial, fis-
cal irresponsibility, but many believed the charges were
merely trumped-up and the real reason was political.”
“The reason we have a Federal Reserve Chairman is to
advise the government on matters for which they could
be accused of fiscal irresponsibility.” “Many a government has been guilty of fiscal irresponsibility by increasing the national debt without considering who will have
to pay the money back.” *

Fishing for compliments 
Saying things in such a way that people must reply by
saying complimentary things about you. “When you say
you’re getting a little fat, you may just be fishing for
compliments and hoping that people say your figure is
fine.” “When our mother says she is getting old, she is
actually fishing for compliments, waiting for people to
tell her that she still looks so young.” “A man who says
he has not done enough good in his life may be fishing
for compliments and expecting praise for all the good he
has done.” *

Fit in with 
To feel like you belong to a group of people; to feel
comfortable within a social group or setting; to feel part
of a circle of friends. “Shirley can fit in to any group any
where, under any circumstances.” “Tim doesn’t feel like
he fits into the atmosphere at the gambling casino in
Monte Carlo.” “As soon as Jamie joined the club everyone felt that she fit in perfectly.” *

Fit-to-be-tied 
Very upset and angry and ready to lose control, or even
become aggravated and dangerous. “My brother was literally fit-to-be-tied when he heard that his daughter had
been molested by a pedophile.” “Auntie Jane was fit-tobe-tied when she discovered that her daughter Amy had
run off with a circus man.” “The President was fit-to-be
tied when he was informed that the Secretary of State
had contradicted his policy statement.” *

Fit-to-burst 
About to explode in anger. “Col. French was fit-to-burst
out into rage when he saw I had deliberately disobeyed
his orders.” “Papa will be fit-to-burst when he finds that I
got married to a man he doesn’t even know in a chapel in
Los Vegas.” “My husband is going to be fit-to-burst
when he discovers that I have maxed-out all of our joint
credit cards.” *

Fix someone for good 
Pay someone back in such a way that he will never recover. “If I ever catch you lying about me behind my
back again, I’m going to fix you for good.” “Keep looking over your shoulder because one day I am going to
come up behind you and fix you for good.” “One day
when the Rothchilds finally get the chance, they are going to revenge themselves on their political enemies and
fix them for good.” * 

Fix someone up with a date
Finding a friend someone to go out with or a blind date.
“It never seems to work when someone fixes me up with
a date. For some reason or other, we just never seem to
click.” “I can’t find anyone I like to go with me to the
high school dance, so I’m asking my girlfriends to try to
fix me up with a hot date.” “I remember once someone
fixed me up with a blind date and the girl was actually
blind. Still, I liked her because she was very kind.” *

Fix someone’s wagon 
Just as in the past, one might have got revenge by loosening the wheel on someone’s wagon to cause a breakdown
or an accident, so, nowadays, “When we say, ‘I’ll fix
your wagon,’ it means we will get even and pay someone
back for something he has done to us.” “One of these
days, I’m going to fix your wagon and pay you back for
the unfair way you treated me and my family.” “If you
ever tell my secrets to anyone again, I’ll fix your wagon
for good, and I say for good I mean ‘for good.’” *

Fixed for life 
With enough money and security so one does not have to
worry for the rest of one’s life. “Someone who bought
Microsoft shares in the beginning is now fixed for life.”
“Dad has a pension and a couple of million in the bank,
so he is fixed for life, and not dependent on anyone else
in the family.” “After I sold my company and got the
golden handshake from the executive board, I had
enough money to be fixed for life.” *

Fizzle-out 
Just as a fire-cracker fuse may not burn to the end but
fizzles-out before it explodes, so a plan or scheme may
fizzle-out before it reaches its goal. “My plan to start a
dot.com business fizzled out along with a lot of other
dot.com schemes.” “There was a plan for national medical health care on the floor of the house, but it gradually
fizzled out after influential people kept coming forward
to oppose it.” “The original enthusiasm for the new constitutional amendment has gradually fizzled out as people
have begun to realize that words written on paper have
nothing to do with political reality.” *

Flaked-out 
Lying down flat on your back, arms stretched out lacking
the energy to even move. “Uncle John is still flaked out
on the sofa this morning after drinking too much beer last
night while watching the football matches on TV.” “Sam
was still flaked out in his dormitory room at noon, today,
as a result of taking too many tranquillizing pills last
night.” “Three days after the gala festival, the emperor
was still flaked out on his couch totally debauched and
over-exhausted from the excesses of days of selfindulgent activities.” *

Flaky character 
Just as layers of chalk or clay or slate can easily slip and
slide and crumble away, so we say a flaky person/character is someone unreliable who cannot be depended upon or trusted to keep his word because he is so
inconsistent. “You can never trust what my little brother
says or promises. He’s a bit of a flakey character.”
“Richard always listens to the person he has talked to last
and follows that person’s advice. In this regard he’s a bit
of a flakey character and cannot be counted upon to fulfill past promises.” “Our Manager is a bit of a flakey
character. You cannot count on anything he says because
he’s always changing his mind in the face of uncertainties.” *

Flash fires 
Forest fires that flash up unexpectedly and burn very fast
spreading quickly. “In regions where the summers are
extremely hot, you often see flash brush fires springingup due to extreme dryness and spontaneous combustion.”
“There has been a series of flash fires on the California
hillsides that are threatening to burn the homes of local
residents, and firefighters are out in full-force trying to
contain them.” “They actually have emergency teams of
airborne firefighters who parachute into flash fire zones
and try to contain their advancement.” *

Flash of inspiration 
A sudden creative idea or insight. “One day I had a flash
of inspiration which made me realize that the goodness
of all religions is the same ‘good’ explained in terms of
different languages and cultures.” “Then, one day I had
another flash of inspiration in which I realized the things
that appear solid on this earth are actually full of the
emptiness inside molecular structure.” “My final flash of
inspiration was to realize that there are not even any solid
particles on earth, but that everything that appears to
have form is nothing but an aggregate of unsubstantial
waves and vibrations.” *

Flashback 
The quick flash of an earlier moment that arises in the
mind; a picture in the mind of a specific instant from the
past; as when your mind goes back to something you
have forgotten; going back to a mental image or recollection; a flash of memory. “This morning. I had a flashback
to a time in my childhood I took a picture of some ducks
with my first camera.” “In a mental flashback, he could
suddenly see himself, at about the age of six, rolling a
giant snowball with his little brother which got so big
they couldn’t push it any more.” “In the novel, the author
uses the technique of a flashback in which the main character remembers things from his past that had been
imbedded so deeply in his unconsciousness, he hadn’t
realized them before.” *

Flat-foot 
Policeman, presumably because he gets flat feet from
walking the beat. “The reason why they call a cop a flat-foot is that he spends the early part of his career pounding the beat, walking the street, to uphold law and order.”
“There used to be a lot of Irish cops in NYC who had to
pound the beat until they complained that they got flat
feet.” “Dan is secretly proud of being called a police officer, but he gets terribly annoyed when anyone refers to
him as a flat-foot.” *

Flat on your back 
Knocked down; or ill in bed. “I am very sorry to have
missed your wedding ceremony. Unfortunately, I was flat
on my back in the hospital with a serious viral infection.”
“I have just spent the last three days flat on my back at
home in bed with a case of the Asian flu.” “When you
feel sad and sorry for yourself, think of the people who
are paralyzed and have to lie flat on their backs in bed for
years without even being able to move.” *

Flat-rate 
Set price; same amount for everyone. “The railway has
been paying the Chinese laborers the same flat rate of a
dollar a day for the last ten years.” “Our resort charges
the same flat-rate for everyone, irrespective of whether
they come in a group or walk in off the street.” “All
members are charged the same flat-rate regardless of
rank or office or income.” *

Flesh and blood 
Only human. “A man who is made of flesh and blood is
only human, and he is, therefore, bound to make the occasional mistake.” ‘The Puritan Christian God says that
all men of mortal flesh and blood are born into original
sin.” “A person who is made of flesh and blood will be
washed away in the worldly flood if he does not find refuge in the Dhamma.” *

Flew the coop 
Escaped, in the way a bird would fly away if its cage
door were left open; got away; disappeared; not coming
back. “I wanted to leave my husband, so, after I had got
enough money together, at the first opportunity, I flew
the coop.” “If you try to keep a marriage partner locked
up in a cage, he/she will certainly try to fly the coop.”
“As soon as my daughter was eighteen, she flew the
coop. She left home, and we have never seen or heard
from her again.” *

Flippant remark 
To dismiss something that somebody said as being below
your level; look-down as though you were something
better; glib. “Michael was always making flippant remarks about others he chose to lookdown upon.” “It
would not be appropriate for the aristocracy to make flippant remarks about the foundations of democracy.”
“Some flippant remarks were reported to have been made
in the House of Lords about how the Labour Party is
presently firming-up the foundations of the old establishment.” * 

Floating on air 
So high and happy that one has the feeling of floating on
air. “The newly-married couple are so happy that they
appear to be floating on air.” “As they were joyously
dancing a romantic waltz at the Opera Ball, they felt just
like they were floating on air.” “When I finally got to
speak to my long-lost girlfriend, Ann, over the phone,
after all those years, I was almost floating on air.” *

Flotsam and jetsam 
Wreckage; fragments; remains; rubble; rubbish; remnants
of old things. “When you sail through the doldrums, you
will see a lot of flotsam and jetsam floating in the Sargasso Sea.” “In my mind, I see a lot of flotsam and jetsam and remnants of old memories from my earlier life
floating in my memory.” “If you try order the flotsam
and jetsam floating randomly in your mind into some
kind of organized system, you will likely go out of your
mind.” *

Fluke chance 
Stroke of luck; accident of nature. “It can only happen by
fluke chance that a beginning golfer might hit a hole-inone on his first swing off the number-one-tee.” “Sometimes it happens by fluke chance that you are in the right
place at the right time and a stroke of luck befalls you.”
“It was just a fluke of chance that the avalanche happened to rush down just in front of us as we were driving
along that particular bit of mountain road. Or was it?” *

Flunk out of school 
Get such bad grades that one fails and has to leave
school. “Nobody who goes to Yale University ever
flunks out of school.” “At Arcadia Academy, we have
such high standards that every year, about ten percent of
the student body flunk out of school.” “Back home
where I come from, in West Virginia, usually, the only
way to flunk out of school is to show that you don’t care
by always cutting school.” *

Flush-out 
Just as a hunter may flush-out birds from the bushes, so
government forces or police may flush-out a suspect who
is in hiding or under cover. “There is a disbeliever in our
Church, and we are going to use the device of blame and
shame to try to flush him out.” “The best way to flush out
a bunch of bandits from where they are hiding in a barn
is to set it on fire to flush them out into the open.” “There
are terrorists hiding amidst the civilian populace and intelligence experts are at a loss about how to flush them
out.” *

Fly in the face of authority
Someone who is treated as not important and insignificant and therefore defies authority. “When I was a kid, I
used to fly in the face of authority as an unconscious reaction to the way I had been mistreated and abused.”
“Individuals who fly in the face of authority when they
are younger often become criminals when they are 
older.” “Nan’s oldest brother cannot keep a job because
he keeps flying in the face of authority and getting himself fired.” “In dealings with government officials, it is
wise not to fly in the face of authority, because the officials will just make things harder for you and in the end,
you will still have to do whatever they tell you to.” *

Fly off the handle 
Suddenly become angry; unexpectedly become enraged
and lose control of your temper (as the head of an axe
might come loose from the handle and fly through the
air); lose command of your emotions; loose your cool.
“When one’s mind is agitated, it’s easy for one to fly off
the handle and suddenly become enraged without any
prior warning.” “Our boss, Mr. Peterson, is normally
quite calm and patient, but, occasionally, he flies off the
handle and loses his cool over the slightest little mistake.” “I flew off the handle and shouted at my little sister, Annie, when she spilled tea on my embroidery, but I
realized immediately I had over-reacted and apologized
for losing control of my temper.” *

Fly on the wall 
Somebody who is made to feel very small and insignificant and unimportant. “When the secretary came into the
meeting room, she told the gentlemen they should just
carry on their conversation, and not pay any attention to
her but just pretend she were a fly on the wall.” “The actual truth was that, to the elite group gathered there, she
was even less important than a fly on the wall.” “One
problem in working as a junior staff member for a big
corporate entity is that, even though you may attend
meetings with a lot of bigwigs, in their eyes, you are
about as important as a fly on the wall.” *

Fly-by-night operation 
An unreliable; shifty; shady, dishonest, business activity;
with a temporary address; here today and gone tomorrow. “The type of shady business that sets up a temporary office, and then when it has got some cash together
disappears overnight is called a fly-by night operation.”
“A lot of offshore investment businesses are run by flyby-night operators who keep on taking in people’s
money as long as they can, but, then, when the going gets
hot, they disappear and go to no one knows where.”
“Some of these new insurance companies are just fly-bynight operations which are only waiting for the right opportunity to disappear taking a lot of profits with them.”*

Flying high 
Having a good tome; feeling good; absolutely elated.
“My son is spending money like mad and flying high and
cannot justify to me the reason why.” “I’m in the Casino,
and I’m on a roll, raking in the dough! I’m flying so high
I feel I’m immortal and I’ll never die.” “I’m in the Casino, and I’m on a roll, raking in the dough! I’m flying so
high I feel I’m immortal and I’ll never die.” “I’ve been
snorting cocaine with Mary Jane, and we’re flying so
high, we’re looking down on you from the sky.” *

Foaming-at-the mouth
Just as a dog foams at the mouth when it is mad, so we
can say a person is foaming at the mouth when he is angry to the point of losing control. “I’ll bet that my Dad
will be so angry with me for burning down our family
house that he’ll be foaming at the mouth.” “The villain
was so drawn to the woman who would be his victim that
he was foaming at the mouth in anticipation of what he
wanted to do to her.” “Pastor John was so angry with the
sinners in his congregation that he was foaming at the
mouth as he spoke the final words of his sermon.” *

Focal point 
The point around which a problem or discussion centers.
“The focal point of the Israeli /Arab continuing conflict
is sometimes taken to be who has the right to claim the
land located beneath the temple of the mount.” “The focal point of the debate is whether a tax hike will serve as
a curb on spending and thereby hurt rather than help the
economy.” “The focal point around which the whole argument turns is what decision will do the most good for
the most people? Any other talk is just a lot of rot.” *

Foggy notion 
Unclear idea. “I haven’t got the foggiest notion of how
many angels there may be in the celestial realms.” “Can
you explain to me, again, a little more clearly? I haven’t
got the foggiest idea what you are talking about.” “When
I first went to Romano Grassi’s philosophy classes, I
hadn’t the foggiest notion of what he was talking about.”*

Fold up 
Go out of business; give-up the effort; stop trying. “Did
you know that most new businesses that are registered
fold up within the first three years or less?” “After seven
years of barely breaking even, we have decided to fold
up the family business.” “After Daddy was forced to fold
up his business during the financial crunch, I had to leave
school and go out to work to try to help provide for the
family.” *

Follow someone’s bidding
Do as you are told; act upon orders; fulfill another’s will;
perform what you are asked to do. “When I am forced to
follow someone’s bidding, against my will, it really
makes my blood boil.” “You must be kidding when you
demand I must follow your bidding.” “I will not follow
any man’s bidding if his request goes against my moral
principles.” *

Follow the golden mean Take the path of moderation; keep well-centered and balanced; don’t tip-the-scales one way or the other. “Moderation is the golden mean. Never go to one extreme or 
the other. Always follow the golden mean.” “The beauty
of Greek architecture is to be found in the balance between extremes following the golden mean.” “Are we
practicing the golden mean when maintaining dispassionate-balance between the opposite extremes of good
and evil?” *

Follow your calling 
Practice the profession of your choice. “Forty years ago
Igor became a missionary preacher, and he has been following his calling ever since.” “After I graduated, I followed my calling to become a teacher and try to make
class less boring for kids.” “When Winston decided to
follow his calling and read the law, little did he know
that one day he would sit on the Supreme Court.” *

Follow your instincts 
Do what comes naturally. “Sometimes, following your
instincts makes you see danger ahead and helps you
stand out of harm’s way and protect yourself.” “At other
times, if you follow your instincts and do what seems to
come naturally, you can cause a lot of harm to somebody
close to you.” “At other times, when we are not sure
which way to choose, we follow our instincts and guess
and hope things don’t turn into a terrible mess.” *

Follow your nose 
Go straight ahead. It’s right in front of you. “The men’s
toilet is straight ahead of you. Just follow your nose.” “If
you follow your nose and keep walking straight ahead for
about a hundred meters, you will come to a junction
where you must turn left.” “There’s only one way to find
out where your life is going and that is to merely follow
your nose and hope things turn out for the best.” *

Food for thought 
A thought, idea, suggestion, saying, proverb or bit of advice that is well-worth thinking about, for the sake of
what we can learn from it and the benefit such thinking
might bring. “I like reading short sayings and proverbs
that give me food for thought.” “Thank you for your kind
advice. What you have said to me is food for thought,
and I shall sleep on it and, then, decide if I want to follow
it or not.” “Sometimes, what we take as food for thought
results in what is good for us and others, but, just as often, the unwholesome food with which we nourish our
thought makes us do things that we should not.” *

Foot the bill 
Pay the bill; cover the expenses; take over responsibility
for the costs. “Let me pay the check for our lunch today.
I’ll foot the bill because I just got an annual bonus of
$4,000.” “Father says for you to plan your wedding party
any way you like, and he will foot the bill.” “The municipal government has promised foot the bill for anyone
who can qualify to become a computer programmer.” *

Footloose and fancy-free 
Free to go anywhere and do anything you want; with no
ties or restrictions. “When I was young, I was footloose 
and fancy free, but my problem was I couldn’t travel
anywhere because I had no money.” “Now. I am old and
alone and nobody loves me, but, at least, I have enough
money to be truly footloose and fancy free.” “When a
man is married, he often wishes he were footloose and
fancy free; when a man is alone and lonely, he often
wishes he had a family.” “The reason why people don’t
want to work as … is that people pay them a pittance.” *

For a pittance 
Very cheap; for almost nothing; for a very minimal
amount. “Back when I was working as a student hiredboy, they used to pay me a pittance.” “Back in the old
days you could buy land in Thonburi for a pittance;
nowadays the same land is worth a fortune!” “The reason
that maids never stay long in our household is that my
grandmother is so stingy she is unwilling to pay them
more than a mere pittance.” *

For a song 
For a very low price; inexpensive; sold cheaply, undervalue; below market price perhaps because the owner did
not know its true value; at a low price long ago. “The
owner of the gemstone didn’t know its true value and
sold it to an unscrupulous dealer for a song.” “Nowadays,
you can buy an old classic Benz for a song because fuel
prices are so high no one wants to buy a gas-guzzling
foreign car.” “The great-grandfather of a friend of mine
bought a plot of land in Ekkamai three generations ago
for as song that is now worth millions and millions.” *

For good 
For ever; permanently. “When I grow-up, I’m going to
leave this town for good and I’m never coming back” “I
left my native, Canada, for good in 1963 and never went
back to live there again.” “This time, I am leaving my
husband for good and I never want to ever see him
again.” *

For keeps 
Forever; never to change again.
For the asking Free for someone who just goes and asks.
For the birds Something no good; of no value; makes no sense; has no
purpose; is no good for anything but perhaps to feed the
birds. “Your idea about making mini-motor cars out of
recycled beer cans and plastic bottles is really for the
birds.” “Your dream of setting up a little tea shop and
being your own boss is really for the birds; you would
ever break-even let alone make a profit.”*

For the hell of it 
Just for the fun of being naughty. “Lets go out and have a
few beers and visit a strip tease show just for the hell of
it.” *

For the sake of 
For the benefit of. “I only teach here for the sake of the
students, and I don’t want to be involved in the politics
or the administration of the place.” “For the sake of the
starving children in Ethiopia, please giver a donation for 
food.” *

For the time being 
Temporarily, just for now; at the moment. “I may have
some money to give you later, but for the time being, I
ask you to be patient and trust me.” *

Force the issue 
Use pressure to bring an issue out in the open where it
can be seen and resolved. Force your way through the door
Gain entrance through use of force.
Foregone conclusion Decided already in advance; everyone knows in advance
how things will turn out. “That the world will end in fire
is a foregone conclusion. The only thing that we do not
yet know is when.” *

Foresight is better than hindsight.
It is better to know beforehand what to do than after you have made a mistake.*

Forget it 
It was nothing; think nothing of it; don’t bother to mention it.*

Forging away at 
Working very hard at; making headway; striving hard to finish a task or objective.*

Forgive and forget. 
Forgive whatever has happened in the past and carry on
as though it had never happened.*

Forgive the imposition 
Please excuse me if I am causing you an extra burden; I
hate to bother you sorry to be a nuisance.*

Fork it over 
Give it to me now or else; return what you took without
permission.*

Fork out the dough 
Pay someone the money. “You owe me forty bucks.
Come on. Fork out the dough right now or I’ll start
breaking your fingers, one by one.” *

Forked-tongue 
Lying by promising one thing while intending another.
“American native people (so-called Indians) used to say
that the white man spoke with a forked tongue.” *

Forty winks 
A nap or short sleep. “I’ going to hit the sack and catch
forty winks.” *

Foul play 
Evil-intended action; some evil intent going on behind
the scenes. “They say Dr. Kelly committed suicide, but
many suspect foul play and even say he was murdered by
the secret service.”*

Fouled-up again 
Made the same mistake again; got things all mixed-up
again; got it wrong again; “Mr. Jerkins told me that if I
fouled up the job again I would soon be unemployed and
standing out in the rain. “This is the third time I have
tried to rewire the electrical system, and, now, I have
fouled-up again.” “I can never get it right. Every time I
try to explain, I foul-up again.” “Poor Jerkin, no matter
how hard he tries, he always fouls-up again.” “Dad told
Garvin that if he fouled-up just one more time, Garvin
needn’t bother coming home ever again.”*

Foul-up the job/works 
Just as a coil of rope can get fouled-up when unwinding,
so we may be said to foul-up a job when we make a complete mess of things; mess-up; screw-up the works.*

Found wanting 
Discovered to be inadequate upon inspection; found to be
lacking something.*

Four-eyes A slang term for someone who wears glasses. “Kenny
wore glasses in school and the other kids used to call him
‘four-eyes.” *

Frame of mind 
State of mind; attitude; mood; disposition. “The Ambassador is in an irritable frame of mind to day, and I
wouldn’t try to disturb him if I were you.” “One’s frame
of mind often determines whether we see things in a
positive or negative light. It all depends on the hidden
factors controlling our sense and sight.” “Depending on
your frame of mind, you will be on the up-swing or on a
down-swing, but if you remember that everything that
emanates from mind can be controlled by mind, then you
will know you can control your emotions.” *

Frame-up 
Made to make someone appear guilty. “They blamed the
corporate auditor for ruining the company, but, actually,
it was a frame-up devised by the CEO.” “*

Free country 
A democracy where people are free to do what they like.
“Do what you like. It’s a free county. But, if I were you,
I’d take some time to consider that any actions you do
cause no harm.” “Just because Americans say theirs is a
free country that doesn’t mean that individuals can do
anything they please.” “The expression, ‘It’s a free country,’ often means that you may be able to do what you
like but you had better be prepared for the consequences.*

Free the air 
Loosen-up the tension; do something to relax aggressive
tensions so thing may go on more harmoniously. “There
seems to be a lot of tension in the air at this meeting, I
suggest that we have an open question and answer session just to loosen up the pressure and free the air.” *

Free-for-all 
Brawl; scuffle; tussle; run- riot; get out of hand. “There
was a big free-for-all at the football match on Saturday
night with fans from opposing teams running onto the
field and fighting one another with their fists.” *

Freeze prices 
Fix prices so they cannot change, at least for a while.
“Due to economic inflation, the government has decided
to freeze prices for an indefinite period.” *

Freeze the balls of a brass monkey.
Just as old battleships had brass cannons with piles of
cannonballs stacked around them which were freezing to
the touch in cold weather, so a man may by comparison
say his genital appendages/balls can be frozen off by the
cold ……………..in winter …………or in an airconditioned office.*

Freeze! 
Stop where you are and don’t move! “Freeze! Don’t
move even a muscle or I’ll shoot! You are under arrest!” 
“Freeze! Stay where you are and put your hands up in the
air where I can see them!” “Freeze! OK, that’s good.
Now, turn around and put your hands against the wall
and spread your legs.” *

Freezing cold 
So cold it is comparable to freezing. “Turn down the air
conditioner! It’s freezing cold in here!” “In the old days,
my grand father used to say it was so freezing cold, it
could freeze the balls off a brass monkey.” “In Switzerland, in the mountains in winter it gets so freezing cold
that the frost bites you at the tip of your nose.” *

Fresh blood 
Some new people in the group or system. “Every year the
firm hires a bunch of new graduates to add some fresh
blood to the staff.” “It’s good to bring in some new fresh,
young people into a working team now and again to add
fresh blood.” “The irony about young, fresh blood in
corporate business is that, after ten years, when the
young people are not so young and energetic anymore,
they get eased out and replaced new fresh blood.” *

Freshen-up 
Wash your face to make yourself look and feel fresh. “If
you will please excuse me, I think I’d like to go to the
washroom and freshen-up a little bit.” “Sometimes, when
people say they are going to ‘freshen-up,’ what they actually mean is that they are going for a pee.” “Let’s take
a one hour break now which will allow the participants to
freshen-up and have some lunch and relax for a while
before we get back to work.” *

Friends in high places 
People who are your friends who have the authority to
not only protect you but make things happen the way you
want. “In America, the only way to gain entrance into the
business elite is to have friends in high places.” “In the
military, being a good soldier helps you to get promoted,
but having friends in high places helps you get promoted
even faster.” “Having friends in high places means that
you know someone powerful who can allow you to use
him so you will be obligated to let him use you in the future.” *

Fright of your life 
Biggest scare ever in your life. “When I opened the
closet and the cat jumped out, I got the fright of my life.”
“When you see mother in the hospital reduced to nothing
but skin and bones, with her eyes popping out, you will
get the fright of your life.” “If you go down into the bottom hollow of the cave and turn on your flashlight and
see the piles of bones and sculls and skeleton’s lying
there, you will get the fright of your life.” *

Frightened of your own shadow
Overly timid; afraid of even the most insignificant thing.
“My little brother Timmy is such a scairdy-cat that he’s
frightened of his own shadow.” “When Dale lived on the
castle tower, he used to get spooked very easily because 
he was afraid of ghosts and would sometimes even be
frightened and jump at the sight of his own shadow.”
“There is a good reason to be frightened of your own
shadow, because it reminds you of your own body which
one day will die and begin the inevitable process of decay.” *

Fringe benefits 
Extra benefits that go with a contract or a job. “Sylvia
wants to work as an audit manager for one of the big four
so she will get extra fringe benefits, like a like a laptop, a
car, traveling expenses, medical insurance , old age benefits, etc.” “The best thing about my job is the package of
fringe benefits that go with it, like sick leave, hospital
care care, life insurance, pension plan, yearly training
seminars, and stock share options.” “Being in the Army
does not pay well, but because of all the automatic fringe
benefits you get, just being a member of the armed
forces, it gives you a certain sense of long-term security.”*

Fritter-away your time 
Waste away your time just fooling around doing nothing
beneficial. “I can’t understand how some people can just
sit around and fritter-away their time doing nothing when
they could be doing something useful.” “It is ironic how
people who are well-off often fritter-away their time uselessly while the poor must work so hard that they never
have a moment to spare.” “I may be retired and alone at
home, but I never fritter-away my time, because I always
have something useful to do.’ *

Frog in your throat 
A deep, croaking, hoarse voice, caused by a cold or
cough or bronchial infection. “The doctor says I have
laryngitis, which in plain English means that I have got a
frog in my throat.” “I’m sorry if I’m not speaking clearly.
I have a frog in my throat because I’ve got a bad cold.”
“Even when Mom has a frog in her throat and can hardly
even talk, she still keeps bitching and complaining and
getting on my father’s goat.” *

From the horse’s mouth 
Just as in horse racing at the track, gamblers may say that
a tip on the winner comes direct from the horse’s mouth,
so we may say that we got a direct tip from the person
that knows the information. “If we get an insider tip on
the stock market, we can say it comes direct from the
horse’s mouth, which would imply information from
someone who is in-on-the-deal and knows.” “We have
just got breaking news direct from the horse’s mouth that
the Federal Reserve Board is planning to lower bank interest rates.” “My Auntie Marge has s heard direct from
the horse’s mouth that the White House domestic staff
members have been forbidden to grin or laugh when
serving white House visitors at formal dinners.” * 

From the word go 
Right from the beginning; from the outset. “When I arrived at college right from the word go I was a welldisciplined and dedicated student.” “When I joined the
faculty, right from the word go I got off on the wrong
foot with the Academic Dean.”’ “The way to be a success in life is to start doing your best right from the word
go and never let up until your task or goal is achieved.” *

From time immemorial 
Back beyond recorded history; so far back in time that no
one knows about it. “From time immemorial, way back
before recorded history, stories were passed along orally,
from generation to generation, by word-of-mouth.”
“From time immemorial, there have always been poets
who recited such stories from memory about heroes and
gods and moral and religious matters.” “From time immemorial, man has always been challenged by his environment to learn to develop new ways to adapt and
change in order to survive.” *

From time to time 
Now and again. “From time to time, I drink a glass of
wine, but, normally, I never touch alcohol.” “From time
to time, the company will change the authorized signatory according to times and conditions” “In accordance
with the conditions of the agreement, the owner of the
property may be allowed access for inspection during
normal working hours.”*

Front line 
The line of battle in war or the front line of conflict and
competition in the struggle for life. “A lot of American
soldiers have been dying out on the front line of the battlefield.” “The danger of being a war correspondent is
that you have to be out on the front line where the fighting is going on and run the risk of being killed in the
process.” “I want to be a manager in big business, out on
the front line, fighting and competing for a big share in
the market, and signing important contracts all the time.”*

Frothing at the mouth 
Just as a mad dog might be foaming at the mouth, so we
may say a person is frothing at the mouth when he is so
angry or greedy or mad that he can no longer control
himself. “Brother John was so angry when I challenged
his authority that he was spluttering and frothing at the
mouth.” “The vampire was so greedy to suck the Archduke’s blood that he was already frothing at the mouth.”
“The rebel bandits were so greedy for blood and revenge
that they were actually foaming at the mouth as they
stormed into the village police headquarters.” *

Frozen-stiff 
Compared to a person’s body being frozen rigid in ice
and snow. “Near the top of Mount Everest, there are bodies of unsuccessful climbers that have had to be left there
frozen-stiff in the snow” “The air conditioning system in 
our office is so cold that if I do not wear a warm jacket, I
will feel so frozen-stiff and unable to do my job properly.” “If I have to stand here in the snow at the bus stop
for much longer’ I’m going to be frozen-stiff.” *

Fruitless attempt 
Try very hard and make an effort in an attempt that can
never lead to success. “I’m afraid that my trying to get
my PhD was fruitless attempt.” “Tying to make a million
by setting-up a sandwich shop will inevitably turn out to
be a fruitless attempt.” “Why should you spend all your
life in the pursuit of satisfying sensual desires that can
never be satisfied when you already know that it will be a
fruitless attempt?” *

Fuddy-duddy 
A person with the characteristics of being an old, conservative, old-fashioned reactionary, and a diehard, stickin-the-mud. “Some people may see me as just some old
fuddy-duddy, but actually, I’m still an adventurous kid at
heart.” “Uncle Jacob is a real, old fuddy-duddy whose
views were formed in the first half of the last century.”
“Kids don’t want to tell their problems and secrets to
some old fuddy-duddy counselor; they prefer to confide
in someone more their own age.” *

Fuel the flames 
Just as we add fuel the fire to make it burn hotter, so we
maybe said to add fuel to an argument to make it become
even more heated. “As if it were not enough to have
cleared our house of furniture she then went on to clean
out our joint bank account, just to fuel the flames of my
anger.” “When we are fighting about our marriage, my
wife always comes back to the topic of my earlier infidelities, just to add fuel to the flames.” “Not only did Carina tell me my manuscript was useless, she told me I
might just as well throw it in the wastebasket, just to add
fuel to the flames.” *

Full of beans 
Just as eating beans makes one fart a lot, so one says another who is lying or talking nonsense of full of hot air.
“You are full of beans. I don’t believe a word you are
saying.” “No one will ever believe an outrageous story
like that! They will tell you that you are full of beans.”
“The expression ‘full of beans’ probably comes from the
tradition of cowboys, who lived on beans, sitting around
the campfire at night and making up a lot of stories and
lies, just to pass the time.” *

Full of bull 
Talking bullshit; a load of crap; a lot of lies. “I don’t believe a word you are saying; I think you are full of bull.”
“Mom says never to trust anything that Dad says because
he is full of bull.” “Nobody believes the excuses the
President is putting forward to justify the attack, and everyone thinks he’s full of bull.” *

Full of hot air 
Just as a balloon is full of hot air so we may say that a 
person who is making high and lofty and unbelievable
claims is full of hot air. “All these political campaign
speeches are nothing but a lot of hot air.” “Never believe
a man who promises you the world if you’ll only marry
him. Tell him you think he is full of hot air.” “My
Granddaddy is an old windbag who is full of hot air and
nobody ever believes a word he says.” *

Full of it 
Full of bullshit; telling lies. “Don’t ever believe a word
he says; he’s full of it!” “Don’t try to fool us with a lot of
tired, old lies: everyone here knows you are full of it.”
“When I tell a lot of outrageous lies to my friends, they
just laugh and tell me I’m full of it.” *

Full of yourself 
Conceited; big-headed; egotistical. “When one gets too
full of oneself and arrogant one is just asking to be taken
down a peg or two.” “If you were not so full of yourself,
maybe you would be able to stop and observe and see
that people don’t even listen when you are talking about
yourself.” “When you are too overconfident and full of
yourself, you are apt to make decisions in which you
overestimate your abilities and fall short of your goal and
fail in your attempt as a result.” *

Full-steam ahead 
Just as on the old steamships, the Captain would order
the mate to drive full-steam ahead to, so, nowadays, we
often say we are going to go full-steam ahead when we
attempt something with full power. “We are progressing
full-steam ahead in our attempt to push our competition
out of the market.” “We are going full-steam ahead with
our new-product launch and are hoping to be showing a
profit by the end of next quarter.” “The government is
going full-steam ahead with its anti-corruption campaign
and more than eighty former officials have been jailed or
executed.” *

Full to the brim 
Just as a jar can be full to the brim (full to the top and
ready to run over) so a person can be full to the brim with
happiness and overjoyed with delight. “The cells in the
honeycomb of the bees were full to the brim so we just
had to suck the honey out with our lips” “Today I am so
happy that I feel full to the brim with the overflowing joy
of the milk of human kindness.” “The water jar is always
full to the brim because drops of water are always falling
into it from a crevice above in the roof of the cave. The
monk is full to the brim with joy because his mind and
body are fully-saturated with rapture and bliss.” *

Fuming mad 
So angry one is about to break out in fiery anger. “I was
so fuming mad that he broke his contractual obligations,
my body was on the point of breaking out into flames of
anger.” “Aimee is still fuming mad because I asked her
to move out of my house, and her heart is still filled with 
resentment and ill-will.” “When I heard he had absconded with my money, I was so fuming mad I could
have killed him if I had ever got my hands on him.”*

Fun 
Enjoyment. “Kids like to play and enjoy themselves and
have fun.” “Teaching English to little kids is fun for everybody; even the teacher is having fun.” “The problem
with you is that you are too serious and never take any
time off to enjoy yourself and have some fun.”*

Funny 
Causes one to laugh; humorous; amusing; witty; comical.
“My brother, Felix, is a real comedian; he never stops
telling jokes. He’s so funny.” “The comedy show was so
funny that people were laughing themselves silly.” “A
thing that is enjoyable is fun; a thing that is comical is
funny Not all things that are fun and enjoyable are necessarily funny.” *

Funny business 
Unsolicited sexual behavior. “Stop that funny business. I
only want us to be friends.” “I’ll go out on a date with
you if you promise me there will be no funny business.”
“When my Mom and Dad took my boyfriend and I to the
drive in movie, Dad said he didn’t want any funny business going on in the back seat.” *

Furnish an excuse 
Provide an acceptable excuse. “Participants who wish to
get a refund for non-attendance must furnish a justifiable
excuse.” “If you are forced to miss the test, due to medical reasons, you must be able to furnish a doctor’s excuse.” “If we want to get our registration money back,
we will have to fabricate and furnish some kind of justifiable excuse to hand in to the administration.” *

Fuss-budget 
Someone who is always nervous and worried or making
a fuss and complaining. “Don’t be such a fuss-budget;
constant worry and restlessness is just a waste of energy.” “Don’t get exited and upset so easily. Don’t be
such a fuss-budget. Keep cool.” “Constantly being
worked-up and complaining is harmful to your health, so
don’t be such a fuss-budget.” *

Futile effort 
Useless attempt with no hope of success. “Wasting your
time thing to stomp out corruption is a futile effort.” “We
spend most of our energy in life in the futile effort of trying to satisfy insatiable pleasures.” “Trying to cure the
world of its need for wealth and power is a futile effort,
for the more people have and get, the more they want.” *

Fuzzy notions 
Unclear ideas or thinking based on vague perceptions or
blurred logic. “Men say that women have funny, fuzzy
notions, but women explain it differently in terms of romantic emotions.” “My philosophy teacher accused me
of having fuzzy notions and encouraged me to try to express myself in a more clear, rational and conceptual
manner.” “Walt Whitman’s poetry expresses fuzzy no-
tions in an admixture of neo-Platonism, infused with
cosmic consciousness overlain by Quaker devotions.” *

Gag order 
A court judgment ordering someone not to talk about
something. “The court has put a gag order on the witnesses in the jury trial and ordered them not to make any
statements to the press.” “The Simmons case is such big
news that the court has put a gag order on anyone connected to it in any way, so the public may not be influenced by people’s opinions and views.” “The Judge has
put a gag order against anyone acquainted with the circumstances of Kelly’s death on the basis that any information leaked could affect national security.” *

Gala affair 
Big, festive celebration. “The King’s Birthday Celebration is always a gala affair with lots of grand ceremonies
with lots of people there.” “In Vienna once a year, there
is a gala affair called the Opera ball where everybody
who is anybody turns up in order to be seen there.” “The
New Year’s Eve ball is a gala, festive affair when the
members of high society dress up in tuxedos and evening
gowns and drink Champagne and dance the night away.”*

Gallivanting about town 
Going about in big city society having a good time;
amusing your self in frivolous social activities, somewhat
irresponsibly and wastefully. “When I still had money, I
used to enjoy gallivanting about town and throwing away
money, but, after the stock market crash, that all stopped,
and now I barely have enough to cover my monthly
fixed-costs.” “Lord Russell has told his son Keith that it
is time to stop gallivanting about town and choose a wife
and settle down and start leading a respectable family
life.” “When Eva was a big, well-known star, she spent a
lot of time gallivanting about town hopping from one
happy occasion to another, but, now, she is all-butforgotten and seldom receives an invitation to go anywhere.” *

Gang-up-on somebody 
Attack in a group against only one person, physically or
verbally. “Timmy came home bruised and battered and
said that the other boys had all ganged-up-on him and
given him a beating.” “I hate it when everybody disagrees with my opinion, and, then, they all gang-up-on
me together trying to tell me I am wrong.” “The members of the media and the press are ganging up on the 
Prime Minister because of his denial that he did not
know the facts of Dr. Kelly’s case. They think his statement to the press is a pack of lies to cover up the truth.” *

Gape at somebody 
Stare, open-mouthed at someone. “The boys just sit
along the sidewalk all day all day all day and gape at the
girls going by.” “Don’t just stand there gaping at me in
surprise. Tell me the reason why you told me all those
outrageous lies!” “When the Foreign Minister could not
think of an answer to the press, he just stood there gaping
blankly at them trying to hide his duplicity.” *

Gaping hole 
A big, open hole that leaves an open gap in what was before had a flat and solid surface. “The bomb exploded
and left a big, gaping hole in the side of the ship.” “When
the bank robbers blew open the safe, they not only blew
open the door, they also blew a big gaping hole in the
wall.” “The meteor caused a huge gaping hole in the
ground that was so big that later sheep-herder used it to
enclose their flocks.” *

Gasbag 
A person who talks too much; windbag; full of wind and
hot air. “My Uncle Carl never stops talking about how
good he is. He’s such a windbag. He’s a real gasbag if I
ever saw one.” “We had a regional Director once who
was very fat and never stopped talking. He was so full of
hot air that we called him,’ Old Gasbag.’” *

Gasping for air 
Just as a fish comes to the surface and gasp for air, so we
may say that a person short of breath is gasping for air.
“Sometimes, I feel short of breathe and find myself gasping for air like a fish that comes to the surface of the water seeking oxygen.” “Sometimes, when a patient is gasping for air and cannot breathe that means his windpipe is
blocked and has to be cleared.” “My younger brother was
trying to smother me with a pillow, and I could feel myself losing consciousness and vainly gasping for air, so I
had to act fast and kicked him so hard in the nuts that he
went flying back through the air.” *

Gathering dust 
Sitting around in a place where it is not being used and
particles of dust are gathering on it. “It is a good maxim
to get rid of everything that gathers dust.” “Thoreau had
a stone on the table in his hut, but after two or three days
when he saw it was beginning to gather dust, he threw it
out the window.” “I don’t drive any more, and I’ve got
an old Benz 450SLC sitting at home in my driveway just
gathering dust.” *

Gearing-up for action 
Just as we shift gears in a car to go faster, so, in the same
way, a team project or combined effort may be said to be
gearing up for activities that will bring about success.
“UN troops on the perimeter are gearing up for action,
preparing to repel any enemy attack.” “Various units 
from the National Guard are now gearing up for action in
order to be ready to respond to any insurgent attack anywhere in the world within forty-eight hours.” “The Boys
in the Pentagon are said to be gearing up for all-out action to fight against terrorism wherever it occurs in the
world in order to protect world peace and work towards
establishing a new world order.” *

General amnesty 
A pardon for offenders and prisoners. “After the revolution, all former opponents to the corrupt regimes were
granted a general amnesty and freed from prison.” “The
Government has declared a general amnesty for all illegal immigrants working in the country, so it can collect
income on their wages to help boost the economy.” “On
the auspicious occasion of the birthdays of the former
Kings, a general amnesty was often declared ordering the
release of hundreds of former prisoners.” *

Generation gap 
A time period between the time that the parents formed
their views and their children later developed a different
set of views. “Between parents and their children, there is
always an area of unshared views and experiences called
‘the generation gap.’” “My grandparents were very Victorian in there ideals, but my parents formed their views
after World War II, and there was a wide generation gap
between them that never could be breached.” “Similarly,
my parents were too old and conservative to be able to
understand and accept the world of Sixties and rock and
roll and sex and drugs and, so, there was a very wide
generation gap there too.” *

 Gentleman’s agreement 
 An unwritten agreement made between honorable gentlemen. “My brother and I have a gentleman’s agreement
that I won’t try to touch his wife, and he won’t try to
touch mine.” “Ken and I have made a gentleman’s
agreement that he will start paying me for the land when
he gets some money. There is no contract.” “Let’s make
a gentleman’s agreement to go our own ways out in the
world and search for truth and the first one who finds the
truth should come back and share it with the other.” *

Genuine article 
The real thing as opposed to a fake or copy. “This is not
a fake Diamond Rolex. This is the genuine article!” “I’m
showing you five diamonds, four of which are industrially made, and one of which is the genuine article. Can
you identify which one is the genuine article?” “Sometimes, forgeries are done so perfectly that not even a socalled expert can tell the difference between the forgery
and the genuine article.” *

Gen-up on something 
Study; review the general information to get an overview. “I haven’t studied chemistry in years, so I’ll have
to take an evening or two to gen-up on it before I have to 
take the production quality control examination next
week.” “I have not worked with the principles of generally accepted accounting practice in years, so I’ll have to
take some time to gen up on them before I begin my new
job.” “It has been ages since I studied statistics, but I
shall have to use it in my new job, so I’m going to buy a
book and gen-up on it before I take over my new position.” *

Get a breath of fresh air 
Just as we step outside to get a breath of fresh air, so we
may say that a change of scene or having a new experience or working with a new person is like getting a
breath of fresh air. “Working in the office is OK, but
sometimes I like to work outside the office just to get a
breath of fresh air.” “Taking that seminar on company
logistics in Pattaya was like a breath of fresh air compared to the day-to-day routine of the office.” “Hiring a
bunch of new, young graduates always brings a breath of
fresh air into what has otherwise become an otherwise
boring working environment routine.” *

Get a dose of your own medicine
Have others treat you in the same bad way you have
treated them. “One of these days you will get a dose of
your own medicine, and then you will know how it feels,
to be treated the way you have been treating others.”
“You may be able to beat up everyone on the block, but
one day someone will come along and give you a dose of
your own medicine.” “You may be able to subject me to
your heartless, cruel indifference, but I hope that someday somebody else will come along and give you a dose
of your own medicine.” *

Get a good spanking 
Take a licking; have you bottom smacked; tale a good
paddling. “The fist time my mother caught me lying, she
gave me a good spanking, and, after that, she never
caught me lying again.” “If you don’t keep still and stop
all that noisy shouting, I am going to give you a good
spanking.” “In the old days, people used to discipline
their kids by paddling their behinds and giving them a
good spanking, but, nowadays, it is against the law to hit
your children.” *

Get a grip on yourself 
Control yourself; get a hold of yourself; don’t let yourself
lose your temper. “Control yourself; don’t lose control;
get a grip on yourself.” “Restrain yourself. Don’t let
yourself become aggravated and angry. Get a good grip
on yourself and maintain detachment and self-control.”
“Don’t get angry without reason. Learn to get a grip on
yourself, so that instead of going to pieces about nothing,
you may learn to be ever-heedful of how you react to
outside impulses.” *

Get a load of this! 
Come here and take a look at this! Take a good gander at 
this! “Wow! Come over here to the window and get a
load of this! There is a foreign woman swimming topless
in the hotel pool!” “Get a load of this! A bunch of monkeys has come out of the jungle to steal mangoes from
that tree. This is something that you will not often see.”
“Get a load of this! Down there, in the street you can see
a policeman accepting cash from a motorist he has pulled
over to the side of the road and stopped!”*

Get a move on! 
Hurry up! Move your butt! Get going! “OK, guys, Get a
move on and start marching before the sergeant comes
along and chews you all out for loafing about.” “You had
better get a move on if you want to be at the station in
time to catch the train.” “OK, men, lets get a move on.
We have to leave now if we want to be back in town before sundown.” *

Get a rise out of someone 
Say or do something just for the purpose of making him
irritated and upset. “Sometimes, I make sarcastic comments about gay guys just because I know I will get a
rise out of Detlef.” “I know that, if I mention his not
having a PhD, this will always get arise out of Michael.”
“Mentioning sensitive topics that you know will make
people get upset and get a rise out of them is called
‘pushing people’s buttons.’” *

Get a yen for 
Develop a hankering, urge, desire, or wish for something
you enjoyed in the past. “Sometimes, I get a yen for dill
pickles.” “At other times I get an unexplainable urge or a
yen for Swiss cheese.” “Every once in a while I feel a
yen and a hankering after my first love, Cynthia Fallon
and I wonder what she is doing now.” *

Get ahead 
Make progress in business life; succeed and go forward
to become a success. “Nowadays, with the economic
growth-curve flattening out, it is becoming harder and
harder to get ahead.” “Nowadays if you want to get
ahead in the big business world, you have to have a high
grade-point-average and a master’s degree from an English-speaking foreign university.” “The only real way to
get ahead on the path to success is to get the best education that you can and get a job with a good firm and
gradually move your way up the ladder.” *

Get along famously 
Get along well together, with mutual liking and understanding. “My wife’s father and I get along famously.
I’m closer to him than I am to my own father.” “My doctoral thesis advisor and I got along famously, and, because we shared the same interests and opinions, I had no
trouble getting my dissertation topic approved.” “My
wife first met my sister when my sister finally returned
from America, and from that day on they have been getting along famously.” *

Get around to it 
Finally find time to get a job done. “I’m going to fill out
my tax form when I get around to it.” “One of these days,
when I finally get around to it, I’m going to write my last
will and testament.” “Make a long list of things that you
are finally going to do when you get around to it, and,
then, start doing them, one-by-one, day-by-day, until
eventually you feel the psychological pressure looseningup in your mind.” *

Get away with murder 
Not get caught in an obvious, fraudulent action; be able
to do anything you want without being challenged or
punished for it. “Getting away with murder does not
mean you killed someone; it means that you can break
any law you want and still get away with it.” “Some of
the Ministers in the government are just doing whatever
they want and getting away with murder because no one
has the courage to challenge them.” “The power elite
who hold ultimate control behind the politicians can do
whatever they want without consulting the people, and, it
is said that, sometimes, they literally get away with murder.” *

Get back at someone 
Revenge oneself on someone. “You may think that you
have got the better of me now, but you can be sure that I
will find a way of getting back at you.” “I moved out of
the house and took all of my husband’s furniture to get
back at him for the way he hurt me by cheating with
other women.” “I don’t yet know how I’m going to do it,
but one day I want to be able to get back at my exhusband’s family for the cruel way they treated me.” *

Get butterflies in your stomach
Be nervous before an event. “Even experienced actors
get butterflies in their stomach before appearing on
stage.” “When Billy has to talk to a beautiful, intimidating girl, he always gets a case of butterflies in his stomach.” “I have no trouble talking to small audiences of
people I know, but when I have to speak before a thousand or more people I have never seen before, I get butterflies in my stomach.”*

Get cold feet 
Become afraid and back-out drop or cop-out of a plan at
the last minute. “My school-buddy and I were going to
stick-up the candy store, but we got cold feet at the last
minute.” “Last Friday night, I wanted to ask Mollie to
marry me, but at the last moment, I got cold feet and was
afraid to pop the question.” “When it’s time to begin a
mission, that’s no time to get cold feet. Just trust the system and do as you are ordered without thinking. Getting
cold feet is accepting defeat even before you get started.”*

Get cracking 
Hurry-up; get going; get a move on. “All right, you boys
stop your lounging around and get cracking; it’s time to 
get a move on and start working!” “Hurry up! If you
don’t get cracking, you’ll be late for school.” “We had
better get cracking, because if we don’t leave now, we’ll
be too late for the opening ceremony.” *

Get down on your knees 
Kneel before someone and beg for something. “You’ll
have to go down on your knees and beg, if you want me
to agree to become your wife.” “I’m going to go into the
office of the Managing partner and go down on my knees
and beg him to give me my job back again.” “Sometimes, in a compromise situation, you have to be ready to
go down on your knees and beg in order to get the concessions you desire.” “In Western Culture, when you
have to go down on your knees to beg for something, this
is considered a humiliating position, except of course in
Church.” *

Get down to the nittygritty
Focus on the fine details of the matter; the basic fundamentals. “Stop beating around the bush; cut through all
the formalities and generalities and get down to the nittygritty: pinpoint exactly what you want from me.” “When
one is writing a job description, one has to go into the
nitty-gritty and explain the job even down into the minutest details.” “When you are going over financial accounts for an audit, you have to get down into the nittygritty and examine even the smallest details of each-andevery expenditure.” *

Get even with 
Pay back; revenge yourself on someone. “One day I’ll
pay you back and get even for all the nasty things you
ever did to me!” “There is a very wise saying that says
that instead of getting even for something, you should,
instead, get over it and forget it and put it out of your
mind.” “You maybe able to hurt me now, when I am too
weak to defend myself, but you can be sure that, one day,
when I’m in a stronger position, then, I’ll get even with
you.” *

Get going. 
Get started; get a move on; start working right now. “If
you don’t get going and start making some progress on
the job, the supervisor will surely fire you.” “We’d better
get going and start the job before the boss comes along
and chews us out for dragging our asses.” “There’s no
point in your sitting around complaining about the work
you have to do, so you’d better get going and do it, so no
one can complain about you.” *

Get hitched 
Just as two horsed are hitched-together as a team, so two
persons can get hitched-together or married. “I don’t ever
want to get hitched; I want to stay wild and free.” “Your
granny and granddad got hitched when they were both
only sixteen.” “In my part of the country people usually
get hitched because they are expecting a baby.” * 

Get in on the ground floor
Start off employment with a company that is just setting
up so you can work your way up quickly. “My friend,
Guido, started off on the ground floor with Kontron Electronics when the company was first founded. Now, he is
the CEO and MD.” “Did you hear about the old lady who
got in on the ground floor of Kodak by being one of the
first people to buy a public offering of Kodak stock
shares? Just think of what those shares must be worth
today.” “The problem with getting in on the ground floor
of a fast-developing company is that you must first find a
way of getting your foot in the door to get them to interview you.” *

Get in over your head 
Become involved in complications that are out of and
beyond your control. “When Sven joined into George’s
land development project, he found that he had got in
over his head financially, and that he’d never been so
short of cash in his life.” “The problem with starting your
own small company with limited capital is that sooneror-later, you’ll find yourself faced with cash flow problems and, then, get in financially over your head.”
“When I first made the merger, I thought I would be able
to handle thing, but once I got the overall picture, I realized I had got in hopelessly over my head.” *

Get in someone’s good books
Get in good with someone; make someone begin to like
you. “One way to get in someone’s good books is to do
something to make a good impression on him.” *

Get in someone’s hair 
Just as a bat or bird may get in a woman’s hair and be
hard to untangle and let free, so we say a person is getting in our hair when he is really annoying us. “The problem with having two women living in one house is that
they are always getting in one another’s hair.” “You tell
your sister, Nancy, that if she tries to fight with me and
gets into my hair once more, I’ll never again allow her to
darken my door.” “My wife and my mother-in-law are
always getting in one another’s hair and they totally ignore me when I tell them that being in constant conflict
will not get them anywhere.” *

Get in the last word 
Have the final say in order to fulfill an ego need; wanting
to say the final word on an issue of disagreement; motivated by the need to make the last statement to prove you
are right. ‘When I was younger, I had the habit of always
trying to get in the last word, but, now, I see how childish
it was, I know now I must just let it go.” “People who
always want to get in the last word are acting out of the
need to show the other guy that he is wrong and they are
right.” “The problem with Richard is that he is always
the one who wants to get in the last word. He must be
motivated by some kind of defensive-ego-thing.” * 

Get in a rut 
Get into a routine in which you are doing the same thing
over and over again until it becomes boring, the way a
wheel wears a rut in a path. “The problem in working
with tax law is that you end up following the same routine all the time and get stuck in a rut.” “I always wanted
to be an accountant when I was still studying, but, now,
after five tears in the job, I feel like I’ve got stuck in a
rut.” “The good thing about being an auditor is that you
keep going to different clients’ offices and never get
stuck in one place in the same old rut.” *

Get into deep water 
Get in big trouble because of circumstances over your
head and beyond your control. “We have invested a lot of
money in this project, and we will be getting into deep
water if it doesn’t soon start to pay off.” “If you don’t
stop borrowing money to pay off your accumulating
gambling debts, you’ll soon be in deep water.” “If you
don’t stop selling drugs to the kids at school, you are going to get into deep water beyond your depth.” *

Get into hot water 
Being in trouble because you caused the problem and
that caused the heat. “I’m going to get into hot water if I
cannot keep up with my mortgage payments because of
my gambling debts.” “When I was a kid at school, I was
always getting myself into hot water for all the pranks I
played.” “My number one girlfriend has learned that I
was lying about where I go on weekends, and, now, I’ve
got myself into really hot water.” *

Get it off your chest 
Bare your breast; open your heart; tell all about what is
bothering you; state your complaint to make yourself feel
better. “Sometimes if you have a good cry and tell someone all your troubles to get them off your chest, you feel
a lot better afterwards.” “Something has been bothering
me about my life, and I’m going to see a psychiatrist to
talk about to try to get it off my chest.” “I’ve had a silent
grudge against you for a long time and I want to tell you
about it just to get it off my chest.” *

Get lost! 
Disappear! Get out of here! Go away and don’t come
back! “Can’t you see where you are not wanted? Get
lost! Get out of here!” “If you don’t get lost right away,
you’ll soon find how it feels to get a swift boot up the
ass.” “Get lost you creep! Can’t you see I’m not interested in talking to you?” *

Get miffed 
Become angry, annoyed, displeased or insulted. “Don’t
go and get miffed just because I hinted that you are
sometimes a little snooty.” “Michael got a bit miffed
when I mentioned I had never seen him reach in his
pocket and buy a round of drinks.” “I feel a bit miffed
that the committee passed me over and put Winston in
the chair instead.” * 

Get more than you bargained for
Find that something you wanted is not so simple to handle and much harder than you thought. “Adopting a child
seemed so appealing at first, but I got stuck with a resentful orphaned-kid and got more than I bargained for.”
“Simone had big hopes about getting the job, as deputy
financial director, but the workload was too heavy, and
she got more than she bargained for.” “Taking over the
family ranch seemed like such a good idea to me, at first,
but then I found it was much too much work and I had
got more than I had bargained for.” *

Get mugged 
Get beaten-up and robbed in the street or park. “It pays to
be careful and not leave a pub and walk on the street
alone in the middle of the night because the chances are
that you might get mugged.” “In New York City,
wealthy-looking foreign tourists often get mugged in
daylight in Central Park by drug addicts needing money
for a fix.” “There have even been some reported cases of
UN diplomats on their way to work being mugged in the
street, in America, the land of the free.” *

Get off lightly 
Receive light punishment. “When I was called before the
discipline committee for drunken and disorderly behavior, I got off lightly because of my age and because it
was the first time I had ever drunk alcohol.” “When teenagers under eighteen commit a crime, they often get off
lightly with a warning that if they do it again, they will
be doing some heavy time.” “Since my Dad was the principal of the school, I asked him to cut me some slack and
let me off lightly for pulling what was just a silly prank,
but he told me in no uncertain words that he was going to
make an example of me and make me pay the maximum
penalty.’ *

Get off my back! 
Just as a monkey might cling to your back, so someone
who wants to blame or punish you may be figuratively
said to ‘be on your back.’ “Get off my back and stop
bugging me! It’s not my fault things went wrong the way
they did in our relationship!” “Since I have done absolutely nothing wrong to be ashamed of, I would like to
ask you please to get off my back and stop hassling me.”
“I wish that you would get off my back and stop riding
me about some old grudge you are holding about something that happened in the last century.” *

Get off on the wrong foot 
Begin by making a bad impression on someone. “When
Sally joined the company, unfortunately, she got off on
the wrong foot with her supervisor, who has never liked
her since.” “When I first met my mother-in-law to be, I
got off on the wrong foot by speaking to her much too
intimately.” “Once you’ve start off with someone on the
wrong foot, you have to try hard to find a way to get into 
his good books.” *

Get off the hook 
Become free of blame and resultant charges. “I’m always
getting into trouble, but, usually, I find a way of getting
off the hook.” “I know you always manage to wriggle
your way out of trouble, but this time you’re not going to
get off the hook so easily.” “Jan is just making excuses
to try and get off the hook. Don’t believe anything she
says or make any exceptions, just go by the book” *

Get off the pot. 
Stop taking so long, hesitating while others are waiting
for you to finish. “As the old saying goes, ‘Either shit or
get off the pot.’” “If you are not ready to take action
yourself, get off the pot. Stand aside and let someone else
have a go at it.” “I don’t know why it is taking you so
long to decide what to do. If you don’t get off the pot
soon, someone will have to step in and do it for you.” *

Get off your backside. 
Stop just sitting around on your rear end; stand up and do
something useful or helpful for a change. “Get off your
backside and do something useful for a change.” “Don’t
just sit around and watch TV all day. Get off your backside and help your mother out with the household
chores.” “If you could just motivate yourself to get up
off your lazy, fat backside, you could take a walk outside
and get a breath of fresh air for a change.” *

Get off-track 
Not stick to the path; deviate from the proper course; line
of development; become sidetracked and lose coherence.
“Follow the course of commonly accepted moral values,
and don’t get off track.” “When I first went to university,
I could not write coherently and used to ramble and get
off track.” “Stick to the proper path of meditation and
don’t let your mind get off track or you will lose mindfulness.” *

Get on someone’s good side
Make someone like you so you can benefit from the connection. “Eleanor is just trying to get on the boss’s good
side so she can ask special favors of him.” “When you
try to get on someone’s good side and make him partial
to you, are you doing it just for your own benefit or is it
also for his benefit too?” “It is always good to get on
your commanding officer’s good side, because if he takes
a liking to you, he won’t give you dirty jobs to do.” *

Get on the bandwagon 
Just as, in a town parade, people like to jump up and ride
on the bandwagon, so one may be said to get on the
bandwagon when he joins in to support a popular cause.
“It is in the nature of humans that when they see everyone else giving support to a cause or effort, that they will
get on the bandwagon themselves and go with the flow
of popular opinion.” “Once a Presidential candidate
looks like he is going to win the primary elections, a lot
of undecided delegates will get on the bandwagon in 
hopes of sharing in his success too.” *

Get on the wrong side of someone
Turn someone against you by something you have done.
“Be careful you don’t do anything to get on the wrong
side of the new boss, because I have heard he is mean,
nasty and vindictive to people he doesn’t like.” “It is
never a good idea to get on the wrong side of your
mother-in-law, because she is sure to influence the way
your marriage goes.” “Never get on the wrong side of
your wife’s best friend and make her your enemy or she
is sure to cause you trouble in the end.” *

Get on your soapbox 
Just as in the old days, people would stand up on a soapbox in a public place and address a crowd in the park on
their favorite cause, so we say a person gets on his soapbox when he makes the same old speech to express the
same old opinion that he has been pushing for years.
“Darling! Don’t get on your soapbox! I’ve heard it all
before.” “Once you get up on your soapbox and start
talking about your hobby horse, no one can stop you any
more.” “There is an old custom in England that whenever
anyone wants to express a public opinion, he can get up
on a soapbox in Hyde Park and talk to whoever will listen for as long as he wants.” *

Get out of here. 
Leave; bugger-off; piss-off; “Get out of here. Can’t you
see where you are not wanted?” “Get out of here before
someone sees you out of bounds and you get into trouble.” “Get out of here! I can’t stand the sight of you!
Dome a favor and disappear.” *

Get out of the road! 
Don’t block my path! Get out of my way! “Don’t stand
there blocking the passage. Get out of the way so we can
carry these big boxes through the corridor.” “Get out of
the road! If you don’t get out of my way right away, I’ll
run right over you.” “You are blocking our right of way.
If you do not clear the path, and get out of the road, we’ll
blow you away.” *

Get out! 
Go away and remove yourself from this place. “Get out
of here! Can’t you see where you are not wanted?” “If
you don’t get out of here immediately, I’ll call the police
and have you arrested!” “Get out of here! I never want to
see your ugly face again.” *

Get over it 
Learn to accept and come to terms with disappointment.
“When a bad thing happens that you cannot change, if
you learn to accept it, you’ll finally get over it.” “It is a
human characteristic that we become reconciled to disappointment over time, and finally get over it.” “I know
you were devastated by Karen’s divorcing you, but with
time, you will get over it and eventually see that it is in
your own best interest.” *

Get serious! 
Be realistic! Stop joking around! Don’t try to kid me! 
Who do you think you are fooling? “I’d never ever consider marring you. What are you talking about? Get serious!” “Don’t joke about punishing God for your disappointments. Get serious! Who do you think you are anyway?” “Stop fooling around doing nothing, as if you had
all the time in the world to decide what you want to do
with your life. Get serious! Go out and find a job. Go and
find something useful to do!” *

Get someone’s goat 
Make someone angry by doing or saying something to
annoy and get a reaction out of him. “The local children
keep picking the flowers from the old man’s garden just
to get his goat.” “Don’t take my joking so seriously. I
was just trying to get your goat. Now, I am sorry I succeeded.” “If you let people get your goat, you are more
ignorant and stupid than they are.” *

Get something wrong 
Get the wrong idea; misunderstand; misapprehend or
misconceive something. “You’ve got the wrong idea.
When I say I want to help you, that doesn’t mean you
have to do anything to pay me back.” “Don’t get me
wrong. When I give you constructive criticism, you
should remember that my only purpose is doing so is to
help you.” “Don’t get it wrong. You don’t understand.
All I meant was that if everybody treated others the way
they would like to be treated, we would all get along.
That’s a good idea, isn’t it?” *

Get somewhere 
Climb up the ladder of success. “It is my goal to work
hard and get somewhere in this life.” “If you want to get
somewhere in the corporate business world these days, it
helps to have a foreign MBA.” “I don’t want to stay at
home all my life and be like everybody else. I want to go
away and get somewhere and be somebody out there in
the world.” *

Get the boot 
Get kicked-out of one’s job; given the sack; get the axe;
get thrown-out; be fired; given notice. “When they found
out that I was stealing money from the petty cash box,
they gave me the boot.” “You’d better not spend too
much time talking with the girls in the shop or you’ll get
the boot for not keeping your mind on the job.” “You can
be given the boot without notice if the company finds out
that you are using their resources for your own personal
benefit.” *

Get the bum’s rush 
Just as a vagrant, drunken bum might be thrown out by
the collar by the doormen of a respectable establishment,
so we say we get the bum’s rush when someone throws
us out of somewhere where we are not wanted. “I tried to
get into the Embassy Social Club, but the security guards
gave me the bum’s rush.” “I turned up at the exclusive
St, James Club drunk as a skunk and without a necktie 
but they gave me the bum’s rush before I got even one
foot through the door.” “So, then, I had a few more
drinks and went to see my ex-wife at her mother’s house,
and they too gave me the bum’s rush, threw me half way
across the street, they did.” *

Get the gist 
Begin to understand and get the general idea: begin to
see the point of what someone is trying to explain. “I was
confused and couldn’t understand your point, at first, but
now I am beginning to get the gist of what you mean.”
“Now that I have explained in closer detail, I hope you
are beginning to get the gist of the matter.” “The jury
was getting the gist of the argument for the defense of the
accused, but there were still a number of questions that
were unclear in their heads.” *

Get the hang of it 
Become accustomed to doing something; get a feel for it;
get used to doing it through practice. “It is hard learning
to ride a camel, but once you get the hang of it, it becomes quite enjoyable.” “You may have some trouble
getting the hang of things in your new job, but once the
routine becomes second nature, it will be breeze.” “I’m
having some trouble getting the hang of how to use the
new software program at work, but my boss says once I
get the hang of it, I can do my job with ease.” *

Get the jitters 
Become nervous and shaky; get the trembles; have stage
fright. “Warren always gets the jitters before going into a
new a job interview.” “I used to get the jitters before I
had to give a presentation, but now, I‘ve got used to it
and I don’t get nervous any more.” “Before I have to talk
to a very large audience, I always get a case of the jitters.” *

Get the knack of it 
Start to get the feel of it; beginning to get used to performing a new task or job. “At first, I had trouble learning to type, but now, I’m getting to get the knack of it.”
“I couldn’t get the knack of using my power point program at first, but once I had a friend explain it to me, I
saw it was really easy.” “Try as I will, I feel I will never
get the knack of being able to check my e-mail over my
mobile phone.” *

Get the lay of the land 
Just as a farmer or prospective buyer may stand in a high
location to get an overview of a big area of land, so a
manager or director or official may need to take time to
size-up the situation before he takes over a new area of
responsibility. ; “Let me have a few days with the previous director, before I take over his job, so he can help me
get the lay of the land.” “When I first came to Bolder,
Colorado, it took me a while to get the lay of the land in
both the literal and figurative senses.” “After I was appointed new Dean at the U of Md., Munich Campus, it 
took me about a year of looking and listening and talking
to get the lay of the land.” *

Get the message? 
Get the idea? Get the picture? Do you understand what
we are trying to tell you? “I don’t ever want to see you
again. Get the message?” “*

Get the nod 
To be given official permission; granted approval; given
the go-ahead. “The new subway extension plan has been
given the nod, and construction begins on the first of next
month.” “My latest book manuscript has been given the
nod by the editors of C U Press and has been accepted
for publication.” “The government has given the nod to
go ahead with the new education reform package.” *

Get the show on the road 
Just as the circus has to pack-up and load everything before it can move to the next town, so we often say it’s
time to get the show on the road when we mean to get
started towards our present goal. ‘It’s time to get moving
and set-up the audio equipment in the concert hall. Let’s
get the show on the road.” “Let’s not have anymore dillydallying about. Let’s get a move on. We have to be in
Los Angeles by nine p.m., so let’s get the show on the
road.” *

Get the thread 
See the coherent line of argument and development in an
explanation; follow the red thread of development. “I am
afraid I do not get the thread of your argument. Could
you start again please and go slowly and logically, stepby-step?” “These people are just too dumb to get the red
thread of the argument, so there’s no use in talking to
them.” “I have explained my thesis by using a coherent
and unified argument backed up by facts and details, but
my students still don’t get the tread of my argument.
They have a listening problem and cannot concentrate for
more than three minutes at a time.” *

Get to grips with something
Face a fear or fight a problem until you finally have it in
hand and under control. “I have such a terrible fear of
failure that I am afraid to try anything, and my analyst
says I must come to grips with this problem or it will dog
me for the rest of my life.” “I just cannot come to grips
with the fact that I was passed over for promotion to
Colonel and, then, forced to retire early from the Army.”
“You had better come to grips with yourself and stop
your habitual drinking or you will never be able to maintain a long term meaningful relationship.” *

Get to the bottom of things
Investigate to find the source of the problem; delve into
the depths of the matter. “It’s a mystery were the money
went, but the police are carrying out a thorough investigation, and I’m sure with their help, we will ultimately
get to the bottom of things.” “I know that you have not
told me everything you know, so now I am asking you to 
reveal the whole truth so I can finally get to the bottom
of things.” “It’s time the full facts about Princess Diana’s
death were revealed to the public so people can finally
examine all the evidence and get to the bottom of things
so everyone will know if it was an accident or a wellplanned assignation.” *

Get to the point 
Stop hesitating and beating around the bush before saying what you want to say. “Never mind the long preamble. Just get to the point and say what you have to say.”
“Some people, when they write, take a page-and-a-half to
finally get to the point that they want to argue.” “Hesitating before you come to the point is a bad way to communicate, and you should learn to get to the point in the first
fifty words or so.” *

Get under my skin 
In a romantic sense, to feel titillated when you see or
think about someone. “I can’t stop thinking about you.
I’ve got you under my skin.” “When I see you or smell
you or think about you, a special sort of feeling gets under my skin which, then, spreads all throughout my
body.” “In a non-romantic sense, we can also say someone is getting under your skin when he is really beginning to irritate you.” *

Get up on the wrong side of the bed.
Wake up in the morning in a bad mood that lasts all day
long. “The boss is in a bad mood to day. He must have
got up on the wrong side of the bed this morning.” “Why
are you so irritable this morning, Darling? Did you get up
on the wrong side of the bed or something?” “I have days
when I get up on the wrong side of the bed and wish I
had got up on the other side instead.” *

Get what’s coming to you
Get what you deserve; get your own back. “One day you
will get what’s coming to you for the evil deeds you have
been doing all your life.” “I’m just waiting for the day
when you get what’s coming to you and suffer the punishment that you deserve.” “The Bible says that when
you die, you will get what’s coming to you for your sins.
If you’ve been a bad boy, you’ll go to hell for sure.” *

Get wind of 
First learn about or hear of the news. “I just got wind of
your new promotion. Congratulations.” “We have just
got wind of the news that you are about to be engaged,
That’s good news! We are happy for you!” “This is the
first time I have ever got wind of the fact that my first
wife was pregnant when she agreed to marry me.” *

Get wise! 
Don’t be so stupid. Smarten up! Be a little, more clever!
“Get wise! Don’t trust fast-talking, sexy guys.” “I finally
got wise to the fact that the CEO had been telling the
Revenue Department lies all there years, and I blew the
whistle on him.” “If you don’t get wise to the fact that
most people will put what they want ahead of what you 
want, you’ll have a lot of disappointments ahead of you.”*

Get with it! 
Pay attention and adjust to the way everybody else does
things around here; conform, comply and go along with
others do. “You don’t know what’s going on here at all,
do you? Get wise! Get with it! Otherwise, you’ll be in for
an unpleasant surprise.” “Keep your eyes open to see the
way people do things around here, and once you are wise
to the program, get with it!” “The company has written
policy regulations that govern what people can or cannot
say publicly. There is also an un-written policy that says
“If you can’t get with it, get out!’” *

Get your act together 
Start becoming serious, start behaving and do something
properly for a change. “Mother keeps asking me when I
am finally going to get my act and start thinking about
what I want to do with my life.” “Professor Gibbon took
me aside and told me that if I didn’t start working and
finally get my act together that he would fail me in the
class.” “I was quite lazy and unreliable when I was a
teenager, but after the first year of college, I started getting my act together and taking my studies seriously.” *

Get your back up 
Just as a cat will arch its back when it is threatened as
though it were ready for attack, so some people may be
said to get their back up when they are threatened by
what seems to then to be a verbal attack. “Now, Michael,
don’t go getting your back up every time someone says … *

Get your bearings 
Just as a sea captain takes his bearings by plotting his
position on the chart, so a person may say he is getting
his bearings when he is starting to figure out what is happening in a totally new situation. “When Dale became
resident Dean of the U of MD campus, it took him a
while to get his bearings and finally figure out what was
going on.” “After Jill broke up with me and our old
friends stopped talking to me, It took me a while to get
my bearings.” “It took Jill a while to get her bearings
when she first joined the faculty at KMUTT, but through
keeping her mouth shut and observing a lot, she was finally able to get her bearings and figure out the way
things worked.” *

Get your fingers burned 
Suffer bad results from previous experience. “There is an
old saying that says that if you play with fire, you’ll get
your fingers burned. “The fist time I got my fingers
burned was in love, and this taught me to control my passion for women.” “Another time I got my fingers burned
was in trusting someone as a loyal friend. From that, I
learned that even a loyal friend may turn against you in
the end.” “The last time I got my fingers burned was investing in an insurance plan that turned out to be a scam.
After that, I never invested in any financial plan again.” *

Get your jollies 
What turns you on; what gets you off; how get your
kicks. “I once had a girlfriend who got her jollies by tickling me with a peacock feather.” “I also had a girlfriend
who was a geologist who joked about how she got her
rocks off and how she got her jollies.” “There are all
kinds of people out there in the world who use different
ways to help them get their jollies, but as every psychiatrist will tell you, the mental images that help you get
your jollies arise as unconscious mental images provoking desires and delusions that lead to mental follies.” *

Get your marching orders 
Get your walking papers; be given the sack; be given notice; be told to go. “I have been given my marching orders and asked to leave the firm because they no longer
have need of my services.” “The firm is making a lot of
cutbacks to help cut costs, and I am expecting to get my
marching orders any day now.” “If you give your boss a
lot of lip and smart backtalk, he will soon give you your
marching orders.” *

Get your money’s worth 
Make sure that you are getting what you paid for, and
then some, if possible. “When there is a salad bar in a
restaurant, Shelia fills her plate as full as possible to be
sure she’s getting my money’s worth.” “I push my employees pretty hard to let them know that I intend to get
my money’s worth.” “When Annie stays in an expensive
hotel, to get her money’s worth, she takes home what she
sees as freebees, like samples of hand-soap, shampoo,
hair rinse, body cream, packs of powder, tissues and sewing kits. One time, she even took a bath towel too.” *

Get your own back 
Get what you have coming to you; get a taste of your
own medicine; get what you deserve. “As the saying
goes, ‘When you piss into the wind, you get your own
back,’ and the effects of the bad actions that you do in
the world will return to you too.” “When something bad
happens to a bad man, people say that he is just getting
his own back.” “People are usually happy to see a bad
man get a taste of his own medicine, glad to see him get
his own back, glad to finally see him get his just desert.”*

Get your priorities straight
Do things in order of importance; first things first. “Getting your priorities straight means realizing what is most
important to you in your life and choosing to do that
thing first rather than a variety of others that may hinde
your progress. “One thing you have to learn in business
life is to get your priorities straight, doing things in order
of importance, getting the most important task out of the
way and then going on to the next one and so on.” *

Get your second wind 
After hard and continuing labor and effort to catch your
breath so you can continue to go on. “The work was
pretty hard at first, but now I’m getting used to it and getting my second wind.”*

Get your teeth into 
Just as a dog will want to get started chewing on a bone,
so we say that a person cannot wait until he gets ….*

Get your wires crossed 
Just as in an electrical short-circuit, so we may make the
wrong mental connection and get confused in a way that
causes a problem.*

Get-the-ball-rolling 
Make a beginning and get started. “OK guys! It’s time to
get this show on the road. Let’s get-the-ball-rolling.” *

Getting across Making your meaning understood; getting listeners to
understand. “I’ve been trying to explain the idea to my
advisee, but I’m not getting across, and she still doesn’t
understand.” *

Getting me down 
Starting to bother me and make me depressed. “No matter how hard I study geometry, I still keep getting ‘Cs’
and, now, it’s beginning to get me down.”
Getting to be a chore Starting to become a boring bothersome task or duty. “At
first, I was so glad to be an English teacher, but after a
few years, I found that constantly grading essays was
getting to be a chore.” *

Getting to the bottom of 
Discover the reason for; solve the problem; solve the riddle; find the cause; clarify; unearth; figure out the unknown secret. “When the police dig deep-enough into the
forensic evidence of the case, they will eventually get to
the bottom of who strangled Mrs. Clearwater.” I can’t
understand why my husband keeps coming home so late
all the time, but I’ve hired a private detective to investigate to get to the bottom of it.” “We don’t know how the
students got the answers in advance of the test but when
we to get to the bottom of it, and find out who was responsible, he is going to really be in hot water.” “It’s a
mystery why ships keep disappearing in the Bermuda
Triangle, but eventually researchers will get to the bottom of it.”*

Getting used to it 
Becoming accustomed to something with time. “At first,
I was not accustomed to heavy labor, but now I am
slowly getting used to it.” “Fred had a hard time adapting to marriage at first, but he is slowly getting accustomed to it.” “In the beginning Tad had trouble speaking
in public, but now that he is getting used to it, he’s getting better and better.” *

Getting your own back 
Getting what you deserve; reaping the fruit of your own
actions. “Pissing into the wind is one way of getting your
own back.” “If a woman hurts you after you have hurt
her, then, you are just getting your own back.” “Another 
way of getting your own back is getting a taste of your
own medicine.” *

Getting-ahead 
Making progress financially; making a bit of profit rather
than losing on investment or breaking even; making-aliving and managing to save a bit; progressing in your
career; doing-well; becoming-successful; improve one’s
social status. “After four years of working to recover our
initial investment, we are finally starting to get ahead.”
“Some people must work just barely to meet their living
expenses, but others manage not only to cover their cost
of living but to and get ahead and save some money each
month.” “I can say now that I’m finally starting to get
ahead in the world and rising-up the social ladder.”*

Getting-on-my-nerves 
Starting to irritate me; beginning to get annoying; becoming bothersome; getting aggravating; starting to bug
me. “Stop your constant complaining; you’re beginning
to get on my nerves.” “The background noise and chattering in the office is starting to get on my nerves, so I’ve
begun to wear earplugs.” “I don’t know why the sound of
barking dogs and crying children always gets on my
nerves.” “Meeting all the report deadlines in the office is
becoming stressful and starting to get on my nerves.”*

Getting-out-of-hand 
Since no one is exercising control, things will become
harder to manage, will soon be out of control; the way
things are going no one will be able to stop the consequences; someone must take control and lend a hand before it is too late; gone too far already; time to stop now;
later will be too late. “His drinking habit is getting out of
hand, and if he continues like that he will soon lose his
job.” “Government spending is getting out of hand, and
we are running up deficits that will ruin the economy in
the end.”*

Getting-settled-in 
Becoming accustomed to a new home; beginning to feel
at home in a new town or place; getting used to a new
job; acclimatizing to new circumstances. “We are finally
getting settled into our new house, and life is getting
back to normal.” “Tom was just getting settled in to a
new home and job in Seattle, when, unexpectedly, he
was promoted and transferred to the Atlanta office.”
“Frieda was already getting settled into the dormitory
and college life and looking forward to her studies.”
Get-together Party or gathering. “We are having a little get-together at
my place Friday evening, and we would like you to
come.” *

Ghost of a chance Very little or hardly even the slightest chance. “I know I
don’t have even a ghost of a chance of ever winning your
love.” “Out business venture will not have a ghost of a
chance at success unless the government lowers interest rates.” *

Gift of the gab The ability to talk to others easily; the talent to get people
into conversation; the capacity to be able to talk with
anyone and make friends; the skill to speak so that others
will listen; able to make pleasant and friendly conversation. “My Mom was born with the gift of the gab. She
can strike up a conversation with anyone.” “You probably have to have the gift of the gab if you want to be a
good salesman, then.” “Some people have the gift of the
gab and some are born timid and tongue-tied.”*

Give someone a rough time
Making things difficult for someone by refusing to comply with his wishes and/or asking a lot of questions about
why or why not? “Come on! Don’t give me a rough time.
All is said was that I want a couple of days off work.
What’s the big problem with that.” *

Give an arm and a leg 
Have you ever wanted something so much that you
would do anything to get it, including even giving an arm
and a leg? This is an overstatement or exaggeration, of
course, implying you’d pay an even higher price than
something was worth; sacrifice anything to fulfill your
desire. “She is so delightful and beautiful. I’d give and
arm and a leg to become her husband just for one night.”
“I wanted to get my own twelve meter Endurance ocean
sailing yacht so badly that I would have even sacrificed
and given an arm and a leg for it.” “My father’s folly was
that he wanted a big expensive manor house so badly he
didn’t care if it cost him an arm and a leg.”*

Give and take 
Both sides compromise. “Marriage is always a relationship of give and take: you give a little and you take a little, and that way both sides benefit.” *
Give anything for Do anything required in order to get what you want; give
my eye teeth for. “I’d give anything for a chance to have
a date with Miss Universe.” “I’d give anything for a
chance to study in the Faculty of Arts at Chulalongkorn
university.” *

Give as hard as you get 
Treat someone as harshly as he treats you. “If people
know that you are going to give as hard as you get,
they’ll think twice about trying to push you around.” *

Give free reign to 
Just as one can give a horse free reign, so one may be
allowed freedom to move about and do what wants. “It’s
never good to give free reign to your emotions, because
you will do and say things you will later be sorry for.” *

Give in to pressure 
Stop resisting outside pressures; cave in to pressure from all around.
Give it a rest! Stop talking! That’s enough now! “Shut up and don’t talk
about it any more. Give it a rest!” “I’m tired of hearing
your nagging complaints. Do me a favor and give it a rest 
for a while. OK?” “Don’t keep bugging me to buy you a
mobile phone. Give it a rest, before you start to get on
my nerves.” *

Give me a buzz 
Telephone me; give me a call; ring me up; call me on the
telephone. “Let’s try and set a date to go out together.
When you find time, give me a buzz and let me know
when it would be most convenient.” “If you ever need
my help, just give me a buzz, and I’ll be there for you,
ready and willing.” “If I don’t see you, promise to give
me a buzz to let me know how you are doing.”*

Give me a chance. 
Allow me an opportunity; let me have just one try. “I’ll
show you that I can do a good job if you just give me a
chance.” “Darling, if you just give me a chance, I’ll
prove to you that I‘ll be the most perfect husband in the
world.” “If you just give me a chance at that marketing
manager’s post, I promise that I’ll double your sales figures witin a year.” *

Give me a cuddle. 
Hold me close, put your arms around me and give me a
close hug. “I’m feeling a little cold and lonely, Honey.
Why don’t you come over here and give me a little cuddle.” “When I was a small girl, I would always wait for
my dad to give me la little cuddle before he went to work
in the morning.” *

Give me a dingle. 
Same as “give me a buzz” or give me a ring or give me a
call. “When you wan to get together, give me a dingle
on the phone, and let me know.” “If I don’t hear from
you, I’ll give you a dingle.” “If there is ever anything I
can do for you, just give me a dingle.”*

Give me a rundown. 
Outline all of the relevant information so I can get an
overview. “Give me a quick rundown of the background
of the case before we go into the meeting si I’ll know
what’s going on.” *

Give me a second chance.
I know what I did was wrong but please give me a second chance so I can show that I will not make the same
mistake again.*

Give me credit. 
Just as we can give a person credit financially, so we can
give him credit for his good deeds, and believe in his
good intentions.*

Give me some breathing space.
Don’t close me in and make me feel pressured; leave me
to decide on my own. “Please don’t try to pressure me
into doing things your way. Give me some breathing
space. “Please give me some breathing space and time to
think; let me decide on my own what is best for us and if
I want to marry you.” “I’m starting to feel a little claustrophobic in our relationship, and I’d like to ask you to
give me some breathing space.” *

Give me some time to consider.
Let me have some time to think it over. “I like you business plan, and I’m tempted to invest, but give me some 
time to consider before I make my final decision.”
“Please give me some time to consider your marriage
proposal and I’ll give you my answer by the end of next
week.” “My boss doesn’t want me to go to graduate
school in the stares but to stay with the firm, and he has
asked me to take some time to consider.” *

Give me the lowdown 
Tell me what you know about the story; give me the
dope; give me all the dirty details. “What’s the lowdown
on the recent bank scandal? Can you give me the lowdown before it appears on the evening news?” “Can you
give me the lowdown on Senator Kilpatrick’s private
life? I hear he has a girlfriend in addition to his wife.”
‘We are trying to blacken the Senators name. Give me
the lowdown on any rumors or dirty details you know
may have heard about him.” *

Give my eye-teeth for 
Give anything for; pay any price for; do anything to get
what you want. “Jane would give her eye teeth for a
chance to work for Donald Trump.” “I would give my
eye teeth for a chance to become a delegate to the United
Nations,” *

Give notice of 
Means to inform someone beforehand of something that
will happen. “I have just been given notice of my termination of employment with the company.” “Your contract stipulates that if you wish to leave the company, you
must give one month’s notice beforehand.” “Working
regulations state that if you wish to take a leave of absence, you must give notice of such to your supervisor in
advance.”*

Give someone his head 
Just as we might let loose of the reins of a horse to let
him run as he will, so we can give free reign to a person
and see what he does.*

Give someone a ribbing 
Tease someone about something that he has done or is
embarrassed about, as though you were giving him a
poke in the ribs to remind him. “My old pals still like to
give me a ribbing about the time I scored a goal against
my own team which cost us the national championship.”*

Give someone an earful Give me a telling-off; scolding; chewing-out. “I’m so
angry! When I see your father I am really going to give
him an earful.” *

Give someone enough rope to hang himself
Let someone carry on unhindered, making the same mistake, until everyone sees his bad intentions and thereby
his guilt.*

Give someone the benefit of the doubt
Believe someone at least as long as there is no evidence
to indicate he is wrong. “Since everyone is innocent
until proven guilty, the court has to give the defendant
the benefit of the doubt until conclusive evidence is
brought against him.”*

Give someone the brushoff
Just as we might brush-of a fly that lands on our shoulder
with a sweep of the hand, so we sometimes say that we
give a person the brush-off when he comes too close or
asks for something we are not willing to do. “I tried to
ask Jane out for a date, but she gave me the brush-off.”
“Jane approached Donald Trump for a job but he gave
her the brush-off.” “Her father asked to be considered as
a delegate to the United Nations but the delegates cave
him a polite brush-off.” *

Give someone the cold shoulder
Give someone a cool reception; snub someone by not
acknowledging him; turning away from someone to show
you cannot accept him. “When middle class people try to
break into upper class society, they are usually given the
cold shoulder.” “The first time I approached Jacqueline
to ask her for a date, she gave me the cold shoulder.”
“When I first met my fiancée’s parents, they gave me the
cold shoulder because they thought I was not good
enough for their daughter.” *

Give someone the eye 
To look at someone with a sexy look to let him/her see
that you are interested. “Don’t give me the eye like that!
Don’t you know that I am a married woman?” “That girl
over there has just given me the eye and I’ going over to
talk with her.” “At Chula, it is not considered polite to
give the girls the eye.”*

Give someone the nudge 
Give someone a little shove or push to encourage him to
get started on the right path. “I was ready to start meditating; I only needed someone to give me the nudge to
get me started.” *

Give someone the onceover
Take a quick look to evaluate the quality of the person;
Give someone the runaround
Cause someone a lot of problems by asking questions
and avoiding giving answers so as no to cooperate with
his wishes*

Give someone the slip 
Lose someone who is following you. “Mickey knew he
wa being followed by a private detective, but he managed to give him the slip.” “The police had the witness
under protective custody but the witness got scared and
somehow managed to give them the slip.” *

Give someone the third degree
Question carefully and closely; “When Dad comes home
late smelling of alcohol, Mom gives him the third degree,
asking where he has been and why and with whom and
for what reason.” *

Give someone the what for
Tell someone off; “When I see your father, I am going to
give him the what for because he let you play with his
loaded gin.” *

Give something back to 
Repay society for what it has given you. “When I grow
up, I want to be a doctor o a judge to be in a position to
give something back to society.” * 

Give the green light 
Give approval to go-ahead. “City Council has given the
green light, and construction on the new city hall is about
to begin immediately.” “The University Funding Committee has given me the green light to go ahead with my
research project.” *

Give the word 
Say when it is time to start; announce that you need help.
“Whenever you are ready to start, just give the word, and
we will set the process in motion.” “If you ever need my
help, just give me the word and I’ll come to your assistance immediately.” *

Give them a run for their money.
Try your best not to let the competition beat you. “The
competition may be better trained and better funded, but
we are going to give them a run for their money and not
give up without a fight.” *

Give them the slip 
To escape; slip through their fingers; get away before
you are caught; escape from the clutches of authority.
“We’d better get out of here and give the farmer the slip
before he catches us stealing his apples.” “The police almost caught me red-handed trying to break into an ATM
machine, but I gave them the slip by running through a
maze of alleys and then climbing over a six-foot barbedwire fence and hiding in a garbage dumpster.” “The CIA
is combing the mountainous regions in north eastern
Pakistan to try to root out pockets of extremists, but the
terrorists continue to give them the slip.”*

Give up the cause 
Stop fighting for something you believe in. “I’m so discouraged by recent political events I want to give up the
cause of fighting for democracy.” *

Give up the ghost 
Lose spirit; lose enthusiasm; stop trying and give-up that
last hope. “I’ve been trying so hard to get my degree at
night school, but I’m so pressed for time and my grades
are so bad that It’s time to give up the ghost.” *

Give vent to your emotions
Open up and give release to all your built-up mental
pressures. “Sometimes, I go out drinking and dancing
and partying all night to give vent to my emotions.”
“Open up and tell me all about what is causing you emotional pressure; if you give vent to your emotions it will
be a big psychological release.” *

Give your word 
Make a promise verbally; assure someone you will do
what you say; swear you will not to go back on your
word. “I’ll pay you back the money as soon as I can. I
swear. I give you my word.” “Albert gave Norma his
word that he would be absolutely true to her until the end
of their lives.” “You can count on my support in the next
election. I give you my word that you will receive my
vote.”*

Give-in easily 
Succumb to pressure and cave in without much offering
much opposition. “I never can say no, and I always give-
in easily.” “At the meeting stand up for what you think is
right, and don’t give in too easily.” “My problem is that I
am such a nice guy that I give in too easily when people
pressure me into doing things for them.” *

Given it up for good 
To stop doing something and never do it again; to give
up a habit or a custom forever and never do it again. I
was a heavy smoker ten years ago, but now I’ve given it
up for good.” “I used to be an alcoholic and often drank
for days on end, but, now, I haven’t had a drink in five
years; I’ve given it up for good.” I used to be a compulsive gambler, but, now, I’ve given it up for good.”*

Given the nod Received approval; given the go-ahead; been granted
permission. “The new airport project had been given the
nod by the cabinet, and construction will begin in September.” The administration has given the nod of approval to the education reform plan.” “Dr. Forester has
finally got the nod from a group of financial backers, and
he’s going ahead with his forensic research.”
Glare of bright lights In the spotlight up on stage where everyone can see you,
“I don’t know if I would want to be a big star and have to
bear the glare of publicity and bright lights all the time.”*

Glide through 
Get through something easily because you are so smart
and don’t have to make much effort. “Some kids just
glide through school making only the minimum effort,
while others have to work really hard and still do not
manage to pass.” *

Glimmer of hope 
A faint ray of hope. “Things look dark for the future of
the company, but there is a glimmer of hope that we may
get a financial injection that could pull us through the
financial crisis.” *

Glint in your eye 
Sparkle; twinkle in the eye that shows what you are
thinking, probably something mischievous and naughty.
Gnawing conscience Guilty conscience that keeps bothering you; a sense of
guilt that keeps eating away at you. “I know what I did to
my first wife was wrong and it has been gnawing at my
conscience for all these years.” *

Go about your business 
Tend to your own affairs without mixing in those of others.
Go against the flow Go in the opposite direction to everyone else; go against
authority or common convention.*

Go against the grain 
If you fun your hand against the grain of a wooden
board, it feels rough, whereas if you run your hand along
the grain, it feels smooth …Go against someone’s will;
do the opposite of what he wants; refuse to comply with
authority.*

Go along with Follow the others; comply with rules and regulations and
requirements; go with the flow. “In a democracy, you 
must go along with the decision of the majority whether
you like it or not.” “I respect and understand the comittee
requests, but I cannot go along with it because I disagree
on moral grounds.” *

Go back on your word 
Not to keep a promise; keep your word; fail to do what
you said you would; to let someone down on a promise;
promise one thing and then do the opposite. “I’m counting on you to keep you’re promise and not go back on
your word.” “He’s very reliable and trustworthy. If he
says he’ll do something, he’ll do it and not go back on
his word.” “A man who makes a promise to a woman
and the goes back on his word is not only a liar but a
cad.”*

Go ballistic 
Become enraged and dangerous; fall into a mad frenzy
and go totally crazy. “Major General Schultz went totally
ballistic when he heard that his military command center
had actually got word about the planned-terrorist attack
beforehand, but had not informed him because they not
taken it seriously and.”*

Go belly up 
Just as a dead fish floats belly-up, so a failed business or
venture may be said to go belly up. “ when I first came to
Thailand, I tried to establish an export business, but because of my lack of experience, it soon went belly up. *

Go berserk 
Become mad, crazy, out-of-control, off your rocker.
“When Olov has drunk too much vodka, he always goes
berserk and starts breaking up chairs and tables and
throwing things and people around.” *

Go dotty 
Become a little odd, forgetful and eccentric in one’s old
age. John has gone a bit dotty in his old age; his behavior
has become very unpredictable and memory is going
too.” *

Go down in flames 
Just as a fighter plane goes down in flames, so a dream or
scheme can be shot down in flames. “After the economic
recession, all Pan’s efforts and dreams went down in
flames.” *

Go downhill 
Become rundown; deteriorate; let to slide into rack and
ruin into decline in “After grandfather died the old homestead went down hill and into decline because there was
no one there to look after it.” *

Go for broke 
Gamble everything on success; risk everything you’ve
got in hope that your venture will flourish; invest your
last penny in one last chance/attempt. “We’ve invested
almost everything we have in this gold mine, so lets go
for broke and in hopes that we will finally strike it rich.”
Go for it! Take a chance and try your best! “Grab the opportunity
before it ids too late. Go for it before someone else gets
there first.” * 

Go gunning for someone Go out looking for someone, seeking revenge. * “I hear
my ex-husband is out gunning for me since I got the
court to raise the alimony payments.”
Go halves Share fifty-fifty. “I’ll go halves with you on a big, deluxe
banana split and we can share it together using two
spoons.” *

Go haywire 
Go crazy as if you got your wires crossed. “Every once
in a while some young captain drinks too much in the
officer’s mess and goes haywire and breaks the place
up.” “The pressure in graduate school at MIT can get
very intense, and it sometimes happens that one of the
research assistants goes haywire and runs rampage
through the lab.” *

Go hog wild 
Just as a wild boar will run around fiercely and looking
threatening, so a person may become uncontrollable; …
to extremes. “The ranch foreman gave the cowboys a
night off in town, but he warned them not to get drunk
and go hog wild or they’d all spend the night in jail.” *

Go it alone Do it on your own; try to do it without outside help. “I
can’t find anyone to invest in my business, so I have decided to go it alone.” “I was looking for a companion to
sail across the Atlantic but couldn’t find one, so I decided
to sail solo and go it alone.” *

Go off in a huff 
Leave in a fit of anger and indignance. “Don’t get angry
and rush off in a huff. Can’t you see I am just trying to
help you?” “Whenever we suggest Micheal try to be less
shirt-tempered and irritable, he gets angry and goes off in
a huff.” *

Go off the deep end 
Reach the point of becoming mentally disordered; turn
crazy; finally reach the point where you become mad and
start behaving abnormally. “Lenny was becoming more
and more neurotic in the first two years of his marriage,
until, finally, after three years he went off the deep end
and had to be put in a mental home.” “I am afraid I will
go off the deep end one day and start ranting and raving
and screaming.” “Archibald was always a little bit offhis-rocker, but after he started taking hallucinogenic
drugs, he went off the deep end and never came back
again.”*

Go on a rampage 
Go wild; storm and charge about with reckless heed and
abandon; start running around knocking down people and
things that get in the way. “Alex Strickling went on a
wild rampage a few days after he got laid off from the
company and shot and killed his ex-boss, three secretaries and the human resources manager.”*

Go our separate ways 
You go one way; I go the other. “After our divorce, my
husband and I went our separate ways and never saw one 
another again.”*

Go out on a limb 
Just as one takes a risk if one climbs too far out on a tree
limb, so one may be said to take a risk to help someone.
“Don’t ask me to go out on a limb for you and risk my
own neck. Find somebody else to help you.” *

Go out with the boys 
Meet with men friends for a drink or some other activity.
“Every Friday night Tom goes out drinking with the boys
because he knows he won’t have to get up early the next
morning.”*

Go over with a bang 
Just as a fireworks display may be said to go over with a
bang, so we may say and event or business venture goes
over with a bang, very successfully.*

Go overboard 
Go to excess; do more tan necessary; do too much. “I
know you are angry and exited, but don’t go overboard
and lose control of yourself.” “Here’s my credit card.
Take it and buy yourself some nice clothes, but don’t go
overboard or you will exceed my credit limit.” *

Go soft on me. 
Take it easy on me; o easy on me; don’t punish me too
severely. “Please go soft on me. It wasn’t my fault. The
others were egging me on and daring me to do it. Don’t
punish me too harshly. Remember, I am jist a first time
offender.” “Don’t punish me too severely. Go soft on me.
And I promise I won’t tell you wife all the gossip I jave
heard about you.” “If you go soft on me and don’t punish me too hard, I’ll put in a good word for you with my
Daddy who is Chairman of the Board” *

Go stir-crazy 
Become a bit crazy from being locked up like a person in
jail who is unable to ‘stir’ and move about. “Locked-up
in this mental clinic is making me go stir-crazy.” “Being
limited to army barracks without permission to leave is
making the men go a bit stir-crazy.” “After four months
spent in the drug rehabilitation clinic, Cynthia started going stir-crazy.” *

Go straight 
Return to an honest life; stop dealing crookedly and follow a straight and honest path. “When Fred gets out of
jail, he is planning to get an honest job and go straight.”*

Go the distance 
Stay on and keep striving until the job is finished.
Go the extra mile Do a little extra beyond what is expected of you.
Go to a flick Go to a film or movie. “Sometimes, I like to go to a flick
with my friends at Siam Square.” “In the old days, before
television, people used to go to the movie theatre to see a
flick.” “Nowadays they have movie festivals in which
you can view old flicks that were trend-setters thirty and
forty years ago.” *

Go to pains to 
Make a great effort to;*

Go to pot 
Deteriorate; go downhill; fall apart.*

Go to seed 
Weaken; fail; deteriorate; degenerate; become rundown,
neglected and uncared for.*

Go to the dogs 
Decline; degenerate; go downhill. “My holiday house on
the sea was beautiful with a big garden of flowers, but I
couldn’t maintain it after my heath went bad, and, now,
the place is going to the dogs.” *

Go whole hog 
Try your absolute best; give it all you’ve got; go all the way.*

Go with the flow 
Go along with the swing of things; follow the stream.*

Go-between 
A person who mediates between two sides; liaison.*

God’s gift to women 
A man who thinks he’s the best-looking and most attractive. “Slade thinks he’s God’s gift to women but the girls
view him as the devil in disguise.” *

Go-getter 
Someone who expends a lot of energy in order to succeed. “My brother, Ralph, was a real go-getter, and he
made his first million before he was thirty.”*

Going bananas 
Going mad; going crazy; losing it. “The time seems to be
passing so slowly. “I’m going bananas waiting around to
see if I passed the entrance exam.” “I wish there were
some way I could get out of jail early. I’m going bananas
being cooped-up here like a bird.” “I’m going bananas
because I have nothing to do but sit around and wait for a
call for a job interview that never comes.” *

Going bonkers 
Becoming mad; going crazy, as though you got a bonkon-the-head and can’t think or behave normally. “Karl
was literally going bonkers with tree firms under his supervision all going bankrupt and his wife threatening to
leave him.” *

Going cold turkey 
Stop drinking alcohol; go on the wagon; become abstemious; give-up drinking; go through a period of adjusting
to a life free of alcohol addiction. “I was a hard drinker
for years, but when the doctor told me alcohol was affecting my liver, I went cold turkey, and stopped drinking altogether.” “Sometimes, when an alcoholic goes
cold turkey, he gets the delirium tremens and his body
cannot stop shaking.” “Father was a boozer for fifteen
years, but, when he saw that drinking was ruining his
marriage he went cold turkey and never took a drink
again.”*

Going concern 
A very successful business venture; having great success;
going great guns. “My friend, Andrew’s firm started
small ten years ago, but now it has developed well and
become a going concern.” * 

Going downhill 
Decline; deteriorate; disintegrate; degenerate; going to
pot; become worse; going to the dogs; going to wrack
and ruin. “This town was a booming until they built the
superhighway that cut it off from through traffic. Since
that day, everything has been going downhill, deteriorating and going to the dogs.” “When they turned the new
local council housing estate over to low income families,
everything was brand, sparkling new, but, now, the project is going downhill due to neglect and lack of proper
maintenance.” “Since grandfather died the old, family
farm house has been going downhill, deteriorating and
going to rack and ruin.”*

Going for good 
Go away and never come back; leave with the intention
of never coming back; decide to take final leave of a
place and never return. “When I grow up and finish
school, I’m going to leave this little town for good to
seek my fortune in the big city.” My wife has left me
again, and this time she says she’s gone for good; she’s
never coming back no matter what.” “Once I quit my job
with the company, I’m going to blow this two-bit town
for good.”*

Going nowhere fast 
Making absolutely no progress.
Going overboard Going to excess; to far; too much; to fast; overdoing it.
Going places Rising up the ladder of success; becoming somebody;
has a bright future.*

Going round in circles 
Just as one can walk or drive or sail around in circles
when one has lost one’s sense of direction, so one can go
around in circles when speaking, lacking coherence and
unity.*

Going thing 
Latest fad or fashion; what everybody wants to do or to
have. “It used to be the going thing to pierce your right
ear and wear an index finger-sized gold ear ring,” “It
used to be the going thing to cut your hair in Mohawk
style and dye it purple or green.” “There is always some
new fad or gadget that is the going thing, and all young
people want to get one more than anything,” *.

Going through a lean patch
Just as one could be passing through a patch or field with
no or little growth where there will be a poor harvest, one
may also be said to be passing through a personal period
of little money, very low profits; slow sales, economic
hardship; getting little return for your effort waiting for
the financial situation to improve. “The farming sector
went through a lean patch in 2009 when there was very
little rain.” “The steel industry has been going through a
lean patch because of export sales are dropping because
of the currency rate.” “Our family went through a lean
patch when father was unemployed for seven months, but
then things got better after he finally got another job.” 

Going through a phase 
Passing through a temporary stage that will change with
time. “Don’t pay any attention to my little sister’s moods.
She’s just going through a phase.” “My big brother is
going through a crazy phase, but he’ll pass through it and
become normal again one of these days.” *

Going through a thorny patch
Just as one might get scratched crawling through a thorny
patch of bushes or underbrush, one may also have to pass
through a place in one’s life where things are difficult
and painful. “We went through a thorny patch early in
our marriage, but after our daughter was born, our life
together became more fulfilling.” “Our business went
through a very thorny patch at the turn of the year, and
things were looking grim, but as by summer time things
were booming again.” “In the middle of my acting career, I went through a thorny patch, in my early thirties,
but then, when I started playing character roles, I had lots
of offers and the money started rolling in again.” *

Going through the motions
Pretending to be doing what you are supposed to but, indifferently, without care or conviction; following a routine without caring and only pretending.*

Going to the dogs 
Becoming rundown and shabby; deteriorating fast; going
to rack and ruin; coming down in the world “Since Grand
Dad died, no one has been looking after the old farmstead, and the place is going to the dogs.” “Haywood was
a well-known night club manager in Chicago, but when
he started hitting the bottle, he lost his job and moved to
New York, where he continued drinking and going to the
dogs.” “Since they closed-down the old officers’ club,
and it fell into private hands, the place has been going to
the dogs.”*

Going under the hammer 
To be put up for auction*

Going up in flames 
Just as ones house can go up in flames so one’s hopes
and plans and investments can go up in flames.*

Gold-digger 
A woman who is only after a man for his money; who
schemes to find ways to get money, property, gold or
gems out of rich men; a woman who marries for money
rather than love. “My step-mother was nothing but a
gold-digger; she was only in it for the money she didn’t
love my father at all.” “You’ll find a lot of gold-diggers
seeking to take advantage of wealthy men in luxury
spots, gambling casinos and five star hotels.” “Don’t give
her any chance to access to your money; she’s just a
dirty, little gold-digger.”*

Golden goose 
The source of money and benefit. “There is an old saying
that says you should not kill the golden goose, which in
simple terms means you should protect your primary
source of income.” *

Golden handcuffs 
Confined to arrest at home in luxurious circumstances. 
“Sometimes, when big drug dealers are confined to
house-arrest, it is like being in golden handcuffs having
all the luxuries of home and being protected and not
alone.” *

Golden handshake 
Being let go from a firm with a generous financial settlement. “When they let Donald go from Asia Pacific,
they gave him a golden handshake so he would never
have to work again,” *

Golden mean 
The balance of opposites between to positions or extremes; the balance of moderation; the middle path.
“Athenian Greek architectural monuments were based on
balance and moderation to be found in the ideal harmony
and balance between not too much and not too little ornamentation” “There may be said to be a golden mean in
the balance of opposites between two political extremes.”
“If you get off the path too far one way or too far the
other way, you may create an imbalance in the golden
mean which could result in harmful effects.” “Always try
to tread the middle path and do not stray from the golden
mean.”*

Gone with the wind 
Just as dried leaves, dust and ashes can be blown away by the wind, so …*

Good deed/ turn 
A good action. “Boy scouts are taught to do a good deed
every day.” *

Good for nothing 
Used o describe a person who is lazy and stupid and cannot do anything right, even when he tries, or used to describe a thing or object that is useless and no good at all
for anything. “My useless, good for nothing second son
dropped out of school, became a drug addict and eventually ended up in jail.” “You can throw this cartridge
away now; it is good for nothing.” “You good for nothing no good bum, why don’t you go out and try to get a
job to support your wife and family?”*

Good intentions 
Motivated to do the good. ‘Any deed motivated by good
intentions will bear karmic benefit.” “When a person is
motivated by good intentions, any deed he does should
lead to the accomplishment of good.” “Please excuse me
for my mistake I may have made, I hope you believe that
I am always motivated by good intentions.” *

Good riddance to bad rubbish
Glad to get rid of someone or something who or that is
no good; happy to see a bad person and go and leave and
be out of the way; pleased to see that a person with bad
intentions has been gotten-rid-of. “We will be glad to see
the last of you, you no good lying scoundrel. Good riddance to bad rubbish.” “When our father finally left the
family penniless and ran off to London with a young
prostitute, we all said, ‘Good riddance to bad rubbish.’”
“When Corporal Grindstone finally left India and returned to England, everyone in the regiment said, ‘Good
riddance to bad rubbish.’” *

Goofing off 
Fooling around; being not serious and not working.*

Goofing-around 
Fooling around and wasting time when you should be
doing something better.*

Gorge your self 
To eat in a greedy way; stuff your self; to eat so excessively that you couldn’t get anything else down your
throat; to fill yourself up with co much food that you’d
be ready to vomit if you took one more bite. “What a big
dinner party. There was so much food that we absolutely
gorged ourselves.” “When you go out to eat in polite
company, be careful not to gorge yourself or people will
think you are acting like a pig.” “At the wedding feast, I
gorged-myself on stuffed goose and rich gravy sauce to
the point where I couldn’t hold it down anymore and I
finally I puked it all back up.”*

Gosh almighty! 
An expression that shows surprise; as if something has
happened due to the grace of God almighty. “Gosh almighty! I never would have expected that it would snow
in Spain on the fifth of June.”*

Got a raw deal 
Was treated very badly and unfairly.*

Got it down verbatim 
Learned it off by heart.*

Got the knack 
Has the natural skill or ability.*

Got-off 
Scott free Avoid any sort of punishment at all.*

Grasping in the dark 
Just as you grasp onto things in the dark because you cannot see your way, so*

Graveyard shift 
Work-period from twelve midnight to eight in the morning.*

Gravy train 
In a position to be making easy money. … on the gravy train.*

Gray area 
An area in knowledge where information is as yet insufficient and too unclear.to allow any decision.*

Grease someone’s palm 
Bribe;*

Green thumb 
Indicates someone with a natural hand for gardening and
making things grow.*

Green with envy 
So full of envy that one shows it in his face.*

Grill someone about 
Question someone severely; give someone the third degree; interrogate and rake over the coals.*

Grim reaper 
The symbol of death that cuts down men they way a
farmer cuts down stalks of wheat or rice.*

Grin and bear it 
Keep putting on a happy face and put up with what you
have to bear.*

Grind to a halt 
Just as we can hear car breaks grind to a halt, so we may
say that a …*

Grinning from ear to ear 
Smiling broadly;*

Griping and grumbling … ;….. 
Gripe about*

Grist for the mill 
Just as grain is ground in a mill, so the kernel or gist of 
an idea is something to think about.*

Grit your teeth 
Grind your teeth because the job is too hard or you are
angry with someone.*

Groping in the dark 
Just as one might grope one’s way in the dark not knowing where to go or what is safe, so we say we are groping
in the dark when …*

Grouchy old man 
Grumpy, crabby, cantankerous old man.*

Ground floor 
Literally, this means at the bottom level, but figuratively
… getting in on the ground floor*

Grow apart 
Develop in different directions.*

Growing on me 
I’m beginning to develop a liking for;*

Growing pains 
Just as child has growing pains, so we may say a venture
or …a*

Grubby little fingers 
Dirty; grimy, filthy fingers touching something that they
should not; … “get your grubby little fingers off my little
sister or I’ll cut-off your whole hand”*

Grueling ordeal 
Demanding, difficult, exhausting struggle/experience
…….. Very hard work under intense pressure. Very hard
work under intense pressure…. Very hard work under
intense pressure…. Grueling task.*

Grumble about 
Moan. Groan. Mumble, mutter, grouch and complain
about something.*

Grumpy, old man 
Irritable, cranky, grouchy; bad-tempered old man.*

Grunt and groan 
Moaning and complaining.*

Guard against 
Be heedful, careful. On the watch for…*

Guarded remark 
Saying something carefully so your disapproval is not
evident or the other person does not perceive it.*

Guardian angel 
Like an angel that sits on your shoulder to protect you.*

Guiding light 
A teacher or role model who leads the way on the correct path.*

Guilt complex 
A psychological disorder due to guilty conscience.*

Gulp down 
Drink and swallow down quickly in huge amounts.*

Gushing enthusiasm 
Just as water may gush up in the air due to pressure from
below the ground, so a person may be said to be gushing
with joy, good feeling or enthusiasm.*

Gut feeling 
An instinctive reaction in your intestines; gut reaction.*

Guttersnipe 
Someone of low esteem who likes to gossip and criticize
and snipe at others. “Molly is a nothing but a low class
guttersnipe who loves to gossip and disparage others.”
“You are nothing but a low-life gossip and guttersnipe,
so … *

Habit-forming 
Addictive; causing a dependency.*

Had it up to the ears! 
Had enough! “I’ve had enough of this! I’ve had it up to
the ears. If you two do not stop your bickering, I’m going
to …*

Hair stand-on-end 
Scary; very spooky; terrifying*

Hair’s breadth 
A near shave*

Hair-raising 
Just as a supernatural seeing a ghost might make the
hairs on your arm stand on end, so …*

Hair-splitting 
Going into fine argumentative details.*

Hairy experience 
Hazardous and frightening moment.*

Half-hearted 
Unenthusiastic; without commitment or enthusiasm.
half-hearted effort to go through the motions;*

Half-pint 
A little guy who needs to be reminded of his size*

Half-the-battle 
Half of the way towards success.*

Half-wit 
Someone with only half the normal intelligence of others.*

Ham it up 
Act extravagantly for comic effect; try to be the center of
attention by telling jokes,*

Hammer it in 
Keep stressing and pressing an idea until a person or persons finally understand it clearly in their head(s). I’m
glad I had a good English teacher who hammered correct
grammar into our heads until it finally stuck and stayed”
“How can I hammer it onto your head that you can’t just
do anything you want to without considering the feelings
of others?” “ … sunk in …and finally became second
nature*

Hammer out an agreement
Bargain and negotiate until you concur and agree.*

Hand in your resignation 
Give notice that you are going to resign from your job.
“According to your contract, you must hand in notice of
your resignation one month before you intend to leave
the company.”*

Hand me downs 
Clothing passed down the line from older to younger
brothers and sisters.*

Hand to mouth existence 
With barely enough to eat and survive on a day-by-day
basis;*

Hand-picked 
Chosen from among the very best.*

Hands down! 
Absolutely beyond question and without doubt.*

Hands-off! 
Keep your hands to yourself! Don’t touch me! Don’t 
touch anything that does not belong to you.*

Hand-to-hand 
Passed along for generations from hand to hand.*

Handwriting on the wall 
Something bad that you can already anticipate coming.*

Handy to have 
Useful to have nearby.

Hang back 
Hesitate to go forwards*

Hang down your head in shame
Be ashamed for your action.*

Hang in there! 
Don’t give up! Keep on trying your best! Keep-up the
struggle!*

Hang it up. 
Give up. Hang up your gloves. Throw in the towel. Give
up completely.*

Hang on for dear life. 
Hold on tight so you don’t falloff and lose your life.*

Hang-dog 
look Just a dog may hang its head and look desolate (or hurt
or insulted), so a person can hang his head in order to
evoke sympathy, compassion or understanding. “Don’t
look at me with that hang-dog look, my son. There’s no
way I’m letting you go to that party until you’ve finished
practicing all your piano lessons.” “My husband always
goes around with a hang-dog kook when ever I refuse to
let him go to his Thursday-night poker game.” “Whenever I do not feel loved and appreciated, I go around with
a hang-dog look, until someone notices that I need emotional support.”*

Hangers-on 
People who get on the band wagon and follow the rest of
the crowd.*

Hang-loose 
Take it easy and relax; don’t be up-tight. “Hey man!*

Hang loose! 
There’s nothing to be uptight about!”*

Hang-on to the bitter end 
Persevere and continue striving until the very last moment without letup.*

Hang-up 
Psychological quirk or idiosyncrasy. …have a lot of hang-ups*

Hanker after/for …; 
“Sometimes, I have a hankering for sour pickles.”
“Sometimes, I have a hankering after you.’ …*

Hanky-panky 
Sexual playfulness;*

Happy as a lark 
As happy as a bird singing in a tree.*

Happy days are here again.
Back to old times when things were happier. “Hail! Hail!
The old gang’s all here. Happy…*

Happy medium 
The middle way; a satisfying compromise.*

Happy-go-lucky 
Without a care in the world.*

Harboring a grudge 
Wanting to get revenge for something that happened in
the past; being unable to overcome resentment over an
earlier insult or injury; waiting for a chance to get even
and pay someone back for something that happened previously. “I’m still harboring a grudge against Billy Boggs
for the time stole my first girlfriend, Christina.” “The
Koreans are still harboring a grudge against the Japanese
for the war crimes they committed in the 2WW.” “I wish
you’d stop harboring a grudge against me for the time I 
beat you up in then school playground twenty years ago.”*

Hard going tough
Difficult work; not so easy*

Hard knocks 
Life’s disappointments and blows*

Hard nut to crack 
A difficult person to convince or bring around to a different point of view*

Hard pressed
Hard sell Just as some people refuse to buy a product, so some
people are very reluctant to accept an opinion or change
their minds.*

Hard to swallow 
Difficult to accept take or endure due to loss of face*

Hard to take 
Not easy to accept, put up with and endure.*

Hard-boiled 
Just as an egg can be hard-boiled, so we can say that
someone has a hard-boiled character which means he has
been through a lot of bad experience and, now, has little
feeling. “McMullen has been through a lot of pain and
pressure over the years, and has developed into a hardboiled character with little understanding or sympathy for
others.”*

Hard-done-by 
Someone who can complain that he has been badly
treated by others.*

Hardened-case 
Someone who has been so hardened by life that he cannot be reached or emotionally changed or affected.*

Hard-fought battle 
Struggled hard to get or achieve.*

Hard-headed 
Stubborn; inflexible; obstinate; hardened-by-life, tough,
cynical, unfeeling. “A person who can’t be convinced to
change his mind is said to be hard-headed.” “She’s very
hard-headed and refuses to take any advice.” “She’s so
hard-headed; she won’t listen to anyone.”*

Hard-liner 
A right winger with an aggressive conservative view.
“The vice president and his business friends are hard liners because they profit whenever there is a war.” *

Hard-nosed 
Tough; uncompromising; determined; stubborn. “She’s
so hard-nosed that even if she knew she was wrong,
she’d never admit it.” “Don’t be so hard-nosed, and try to
be a bit more flexible.” “The deputy director is so hardnosed and ruthless that he would do anything to make
things go his way.” “In the office everybody thought that
she was a hard-nosed bitch, but outside her work environment she was actually kind and compromising.”*

Hard-to-get 
Capricious; saying, ‘No’ when you really mean, ’Yes.’
“Pretending to be difficult because you like to be coaxed
is called ‘playing hard to get.’ “Someone who likes to
play hard-to-get says “No when he really means, ‘Yes.’
A lot of women are like that.” *

Hard-up 
Down and out, without any money or means of assistance. “When Dale was a foreign student in Germany, at
the end of the month, he was always hard-up and short of
money. Sometimes, he didn’t even eat for two days.” *

Hard-won 
Not easily won; hard fought-for. “I do not want to waste
my hard won earnings so I put all the money I can in the
bank.”*

Harmless lie 
A lie told that hurts no one or does no harm. “Telling a
little white lie usually does no harm, but it is still dishonest.”*

Harping away at someone
Complaining repeatedly with anger and dissatisfaction.
“My wife keeps harping away at me because she wants
more spending money.”*

Has-been 
Someone who has been someone important in the past
but is no longer important now, is said to be a “has
been.” … … “When I was young, I was a ‘wanna be,’
when I was older, I became ‘somebody,’ but now that I
have lost everything, I am just a ‘has been.’”*

Hash it over 
Argue it out to try to come to an agreement. “When two
people disagree, they often sit down together band hash it
over until they find a solution.” *

Hassle someone 
Irritate, annoy, bother, continue complaining; keep bugging someone about something. “Stop hassling me about
doing my homework! Can’t you see I’m watching the
football match? I’ll do it later. I promise.”*

Hate crime 
A crime committed motivated by hate. “Homosexual
head-bashing is one type of hate crime,” “Another kind
of hate crime is killing someone as a symbol of a religion
or race.” *

Hateful comment 
A remark intended to hurt or injure someone you detest
and dislike. “You can make any hateful comment about
me that you like. It’s not going to hurt my feelings because I know how resentful you are. *

Hateful expression 
A look of hate or resentment on your face. Whenever I
see my ex-husband, he always gives me a hateful expression.” “Wipe that hateful expression off your face and
stop being so jealous and resentful all the time.” *

Haughty attitude 
Snooty manner; thinking you are better than others.
“Why don’t you get down off your high horse and stop
thinking you are so superior to others? It’s time you
dropped your haughty attitude.” *

Haul someone over the coals
Give someone a good grilling or questioning making him
defend himself from suspicion of guilt. “The police gave
the suspect, Perkins, a good hauling over the coals to try
to get evidence concerning his whereabouts at the time
when the crime was committed.” *

Have a conniption 
Have a fit of anger when you find out. “When mother
finds out I missed my period, she’ll have a conniption.” *

Have a fit 
Become angry; upset; furious; enraged; turn crazy; go
mad; lose control; react very strongly in a negative manner. “My mother would have a fit if she knew that I was
using birth control pills and having sex with my boyfriend.” “Our boss, Mr. Pinkerton, would have a fit if he
knew that we all called him ‘stinky-pinky’ behind his
back.” “If I find out that my little sister has been using
my makeup without first asking for my permission, I’ll
have a fit.” “The teacher would have a fit if he knew that
we all had the answers to the exam questions before the
test.”*

Have a fling 
Have a brief sexual affair with an illicit partner. “Years
ago the executive director had a fling with his secretary,
but it didn’t last very long because they realized it was
just too dangerous.” *

Have a go at it 
Give it a try; take a shot at it; try doing it yourself; “If
you can’t do it, let me have a go at it. Maybe I will have
success.”*

Have a hankering for 
Feel a yearning for, “Sometimes, I have a hankering for
dill pickles, even though I have not tasted them in years.”
“Sometimes, I get a hankering for my first wife even
though I am glad we are divorced.” *

Have a head on your shoulders
Clever and well-balanced and trustworthy. “You have
got a good head on your shoulders; y You will go along
way in this life because people will trust and believe in
you.” *

Have a heart! 
Show mercy, compassion or pity to show that you have a
heart. “O, Come on! Have a heart! Don’t be so cruel and
merciless!”*

Have a hunch 
Have an intuitive feeling; able to make a good guess. “I
have a hunch that the stock market is going to go up. I
cannot explain it; I just feel it in my bones.” “I have a
hunch that you are lying to be and that the truth is the
opposite of what you say.” *

Have a lot on the ball 
Have a lot going for you; quite talented and clever. “This
new, young man we have hired looks promising. He
seems to have a lot on the ball.”*

Have a premonition 
Have a feeling beforehand of what is going to happen. “I
have premonition that there will be a military takeover of
the government soon.” *

Have a run-in with 
Have a clash, conflict, confrontation, disagreement or
argument with someone. “I had a run-in with my boss
about the way he treats the staff, and he has asked me to
resign.” “Dick was only sixteen when he had his first
run-in with the law.” “*

Have a say in the matter 
Be able to express your opinion to help in deciding on
something. “If you are planning on selling the family 
house, I think the children should be able to have a say in
the matter.” “I have to go where my company sends me. I
have little say in the matter.” *

Have a skeleton in your closet
Secret concerning something scandalous, immoral and
indecent from your past. “In the old days, a Prince might
murder his older brother and entomb his body in stones
and mortar in a closet in his quarters, to assure he would
be next in line for the throne.” “Someone who has
reached a position of power through unknown evil ends
may be said to have a skeleton in his closet.” “If no one
knows you had a secret homosexual experience when
you were young, then you have a skeleton in your
closet.” *

Have a sneaking suspicion
Have a nasty premonition or hunch. “I have a sneaking
suspicion that there is corruption going on behind the
scenes in national politics.” “I have a sneaking suspicion
that all the votes for the next election have already been
bought and paid for.” “I have a sneaking suspicion that
the present military government believes it is protecting
the country from the evils of democracy.” *

Have a snooze 
Sleep for a while; take a short nap; sleep deeply to have
rest for a time until you wake up and continue what
you’re doing.
“I think I’ll have a short snooze after lunch before continuing with my work.” “Grandpa always has a snooze in
the late afternoon, so he will feel fresh when he comes
down to enjoy dinner with the family.”*

Have a very good name 
Have a good reputation within a certain group. “I have a
very good name within the academic community.” “I
don’t have a very good name in the business community
because of my bad loans.’ “*

Have it coming to you 
Get what you deserve. “I am happy to see that you are
finally going to get what you deserve. Ypu have it coming to you.” *

Have it down-pat 
To know perfectly; carefully-memorized and wellpracticed..*

Have it in for someone 
Have a grudge against someone; have something against
someone;*

Have it out with someone 
Have an argument and clear the air; fight to the finish;*

Have no say in the matter Have no authority to speak about or influence the matter.
“I have no say in the matter of where I will be appointed
to work. That is the company’s decision”;*

Have no stomach for 
Cannot stand; cannot bear.*

Have no use for someone 
To look down on someone as good-for-nothing and show
no respect.*

Have nothing on 
Be naked; nude; wearing no clothing. “Have you heard
of the poor couple who only had one sarong, so when she
went out to town, he stayed home with nothing on?” *

Have no qualms about 
Not feel hesitant in judgment due to conscience. “The
judge says he had no qualms about handing down the
death sentence in this case because of the cold-blooded
brutality of the murder;” *

Have something on somebody
To Know a dirty, little secret about somebody. “I have
got something on you so be careful of what you do because if you annoy me I’ll tell on you.” *

Have the last laugh 
Somebody maybe making you look stupid and ridiculous
now, but, in the end, you will be the last one laughing at
him. “*

Have your feet on the ground
Well-balanced; realistic, sensible and reliable. “The new
GM seems to be stable, experienced and have his feet on
the ground.” *

Have your fill 
Be surfeited; had enough. “I’ve eaten so much I could
not eat anymore. I’ve had my fill.” “Sensual pleasure is
good as far as it goes, but after a while you will find that
you have had your fill.” “I’ve worked in the big corporate world for long enough, but now, I’ve had my fill.” *

Have your hands full 
Be so busy that you cannot take on any more work, as
though your hands are full and you can’t pick up or carry
anything else.*

Have your heart in your mouth
Be so in love that you cannot use your mouth to speak
because you are overcome with intimidation and emotion. “After weeks of waiting until I could finally get a
chance to speak with her alone, I couldn’t say word because my heart was in my mouth.” *

Have your way 
Insist on doing things your way. “My first boyfriend insisted that I let him have his way with me.” “OK, have it
your own way. Make me do anything you want.” “Do
what you like. Do what you want. I give in. I don’t care.
You can have your own way.” *

Haven’t a prayer 
No hope whatsoever; no chance at all. “We haven’t a
hope of winning the election; we haven’t a prayer, so we
may as well give hope.” *

Haven’t got a leg to stand on
No basis for argument; no proof to back you up; no support. ”You can argue until you are blue in the face that
AIDS is not communicated through sexual contact, but
you haven’t got a leg to stand on.” “You can’t stick to
your story that you were in a Chicago hotel room with
your girlfriend, because DNA evidence proves that you
were at the scene of the crime at the time when it happened, so you should confess the truth and ask for leniency, because your alibi hasn’t a leg to stand on.” “I
know you maintain that man does not descend from monkeys, but your argument doesn’t have a leg to stand on in
the face of the vast body of anthropological research that
speaks to the contrary.”*

Haven’t got a snowball’s 
Just as a snowball would have no chance of surviving in 
chance in hell the fires of hell, so a person knows he cannot succeed or
be helped. “I haven’t got a snowball’s chance in hell of
ever being named Mr. Universe.” “I don’t have a snowball’s chance in hell of getting Cynthia to marry me.
“Our team does not have a snowball’s chance in heel of
ever winning the league championship.” *

Having second thoughts 
Reconsidering; becoming unsure and hesitant; rethinking
an intention. “I am having second thoughts about going
to the South in May because I am afraid there may be
terrorist bombings.” “Cynthia is having second thoughts
about marrying me because I am poor and uneducated.”
“My brother is having second thoughts about having a
military career because he does not like the country’s
foreign policy.” *

Hawk-eyed 
With sharp eyes like a hawk. “Just as a hawk can see its
prey from high in the sky, so …….“Our teacher is so
hawk-eyed that we do not dare to cheat.”*

Hawks and doves 
Right wing, conservative war-mongers on the one hand
and left-wing, advocates of peace on the other. “At the
moment in Congress the hawks seem to be getting the
upper hand over the doves.”*

He doesn’t want to know. 
He prefers to ignore or not be informed of the truth; he
won’t listen.*

He hit on me. 
When a man makes a sexual advance towards a woman
who doesn’t expect it, or tries to get her to spend time
with him, the woman may say, “He hit on me.” “I always
had a lot of respect for my boss until, despite the fact that
he was a married man, he hit on me.” “Sharon was having an open and sincere relationship with one of her clients, until, one day, he hit on her, and, after that, she felt
a bit uncomfortable.” “When my best friend’s boyfriend
hit on me, I told her exactly what had happened, but she
didn’t believe me.”*

He means well. 
He has good intentions. “Whatever father does, whether
you agree with him or not, he means well.” “Mother’s
motives are in your best inter4eest. I hope you realize
that she means well.” “Sometimes, when the preacher
points out people’s weaknesses, they should understand
that he means well and is actually trying to help them.”*

He’s a big bruiser. 
He’s big and strong and likes to fight; he’s well-built and
muscular and could beat you black and blue. “My brother
Butch is a big bruiser, and you’d be better to stay out of
his way, because he’d as soon give you a good bashing
as look at you.” “The doorman was a big bruiser who
would have no trouble throwing unwanted guests out the
door and into the street.” “Be careful what you say to
Billy because he’s a big bruiser and a bully who would
fight you at the drop of a hat.” *

He’s got a screw loose. 
He’s a bit mad; quite odd; peculiar; mentally dysfunctional; crazy; “My poor little brother, Pete, is mentally
dysfunctional. He’s got a screw loose.” “From the peculiar way Franz acts, I’d say there’s something wrong with
him. He definitely has a screw loose somewhere.” “A
person’s brain can be compared to an antique clock that
does not work right because there is a screw loose
somewhere.” “Now that I’m getting older, my mind is
not as sharp as it used to be. There must be a screw loose
somewhere.”*

He’s got his head screwed on right
He’s a level-headed, clever chap with good intentions.*

He’s not the man he used-to-be.
He is weaker now than he used to be. “In the old days,
tom could run fifteen kilometers to work nut nowadays,
he could not even walk fifteen kilometers. He’s not the
man he used to be.” *

He’s really sharp! 
He is very quick-witted and clever;*

He’s touched. 
He’s mentally abnormal; acts a little crazy; has something wrong with his brain; born mentally deficient. “My
little brother’s a little touched; pay no attention if he acts
a little strange.” “Granny’s been a little touched since she
a coconut fall and landed on her head two years ago.”
“How could you suggest such an idea? You’re mentally
peculiar. You must be a little touched.”*

Head and shoulders above the rest
Far better than all the others; a cut above the rest. “Colonel Alcott is the best commander in the regiment. He
stands out head and shoulders above the rest.”*

Head case 
A crazy person; one who is not right in the head. “I think
my new commanding officer must be a head case. I don’t
know how anyone as crazy as that could ever be promoted to full Colonel.” “Lillian’s husband is a head case
from outer space. I wonder wherever she ever found
him?” *

Head for the hills 
In the old days when there was a flood in a valley, all the
people had to head for the hills to get up onto dry land.
“Just as the people from a village located in a valley will
seek higher land and head for the hills when there is a
flood, so we may say, figuratively, that we head for the
hills to get out of the way of approaching danger.” “All
hell is breaking loose in the town saloon and the respectable folks are all heading for a safe place in the hills.” *

Head in the clouds 
Lost in illusion; overly-optimistic.*

Head over heels in love 
Totally, illogically in love with the world turned upsidedown so-to-speak.*

Head start 
Being able or allowed to begin ahead of the others, perhaps due to a handicap.*

Heads up! 
Watch out what is coming down from above. “Heads up
everybody! There are boulders and rocks starting to roll 
off the mountainside down onto the path.”*

Heads will roll 
Just as in the French Revolution, they used to cut off the
heads of noble, so we say nowadays that people in high
positions will be fired and removed from position when a
big change or upheaval in management comes. “If I
could take over the administration of this university, a
few heads would roll.” *

Head-to-head 
In direct confrontation;*

Hear a pin drop 
Absolutely quiet. “It was so quiet in the auditorium you
could hear a pin drop.”*

Hear me out 
At least listen to the end of what I have to say. Please
don’t interrupt me. Hear me out and listen to what I have
to say and then I will be happy to hear what you have to
say.”*

Heart failure 
Just as the human heart can become weak physically so
that it cannot pump anymore, so a person may say he almost had heart failure when something worrisome and
unexpected happened.*

Heart in your mouth 
A state of being so emotional you feel your heart is in
your mouth so you are unable to speak.*

Heart of the matter 
The central point; the core of the matter; the crux of .the
issue.*

Heart’s desire 
What the heart is set on having; highest hope; fondest
dream. “Having a twelve meter teakwood yacht was my
heart’s desire but it took me fifteen years to pay off the
loan to buy it.” *

Heartbreaker 
A man who breaks people’s hearts or a situation that can
break one’s heart.*

Heartfelt gratitude 
A feeling of thankfulness deep in one’s heart.*

Heartfelt sympathy 
A deep feeling of sympathy and at another’s sorrow.*

Heart-to-heart 
An honest and open talk between two people saying how
they feel, straight from the heart; explaining their feelings privately, one-on-one; in a dialogue during which
both persons truly confess their emotions; talking freely;
to get a load off their chests. “Janice told Derrick that it
was time they had a heart-to-heart discussion about when
they would be getting married.” “My wife and I had a
heart-to-heart discussion in the third year of our marriage, and we both confessed to the other that we secretly
desired to become separated and, then, get divorced.” “I
had a heart-to-heart talk with my boss and told him that I
felt my contribution to the firm was not sufficiently appreciated, but he assured me that everyone respected my
ability, even though they might not be saying so.”*

Heaven-on-earth 
Absolute bliss and contentment; as happy as one can be
on this earth..*

Heave-up 
Vomit; puke; bring up the contents of your stomach.*

Heavy-handed 
Oppressive, forceful and against peoples will. “I disap-
prove of the heavy-handed way the government is using
its control to ignore the will of the people.” *

Hectic pace 
Frantic, stressful, excited rate. “Nowadays, it is hard to
keep up with the hectic pace of technological development.” *

Height of ecstasy 
Peak of joy and blissfulness.*

Height of his career 
High-point; … Height of fame and glory*

Height of indecency 
The absolute lowest level of low, crude, offensive behavior. “Anyone who can even imagine the height of indecency has a defiled and tainted mind.” *

Held for questioning 
Retained by police for interregation.*

Held in high esteem 
Respected very highly.*

Help for the needy 
Charity for those not so well off as yourself.*

Help mate 
Someone close to you to assist you. “Since my wife died
and left me alone, I really miss having a helpmate at my
side.”*

Help your self 
Don’t depend on others to help you; help yourself.*

Help yourself to 
Take as much as you want. “There’s lots of good food on
the table; help yourself to anything you like.”*

Helping hand 
Lending aid or giving a hand to someone needing help*

Helter-skelter 
Chaotic; haphazard; confused; in a panic; disorganized.*

Hen-pecked husband 
Just as there is a pecking order in the henhouse, so we
can say that*

Here comes trouble! 
The person coming is going to show anger or direct
blame or cause big problems or difficulties.*

Here today and gone tomorrow
Things can disappear quickly.*

Hidden motives 
Latent or concealed intentions which are not necessarily
good.*

Hidden-agenda A secret goal or plan or sequence of events that a politician or influential person desires to carry-out and will try
to push through without the general public or the other
members of the group realizing his intentions. “Some say
that the Prime Minister has his own, private, personal
hidden-agenda to further his own benefit, but most people seem to believe that he has the interests of the country at heart.” “ …*

Hide out 
A place to stay so no one can find you*

Hide your face 
Cover your face due to shame.*

Hide your feelings 
Conceal how you really feel about something.*

High and dry 
Left alone with no one to help you.*

High and mighty 
Thinking you are better than and superior to other people*

High brow 
Interesting to persons who are cultivated and welleducated; appealing to the cultured, scholarly-minded
class in society. “People who have little or no background in musical appreciation generally find that opera
music is too high brow for them.” “The openings of
modern art gallery exhibitions are usually high brow, 
black tie affairs, with cocktails and cultivated conversation.” “Because I was not born into cultivated circumstances, I have a short attention-span when it comes to
viewing high brow performances of classical drama or
listening to symphonic music.”*

High horse 
Come down off your pedestal and stop thinking so highly
of yourself. “Just as a king may ride on a high horse as a
sign that he is of superior rank than all others, so we
sometimes tell someone with a superior attitude to climb
down off his high horse and act like a regular human being like the rest of us.” “It time you climbed down off
your high horse and stopped thinking that you are better
than everybody else.” “If you insist on maintaining an
attitude that you are better than everyone else, someday,
someone is going to come along knock you down off
your high horse.”*

High jinx 
Wild, harmless fun; playing around, pulling pranks; acting-up; getting up to tomfoolery and harmless mischief.
“Mother told her daughters that if they didn’t stop their
silly, high jinks and learn to behave more like perfect ladies, no respectable gentleman would ever want to marry
them.” “I told my son that it was time for him to stop his
high jinx and settle down and lead a respectable life.” “*

High on the hog 
Eating the best quality food that money can buy*

High profile 
Having a well-known, respected image.*

High time About time!
Higher than a kite Just as a paper kite flies high in the sky, so we can say
someone under the influence of drugs or alcohol is higher
than a kite.*

High-handed 
Arrogant; overbearing; bossy.*

High-minded 
Highly moral in intentioned; highly moral and philosophical.*

High-strung 
Very sensitive and nervous, tense and easily emotionally
upset.*

Hightail it out of here 
Run away (like a rabbit) before you get caught; get away
quickly. “We had better hightail it out of here before
Farmer Jones catches us stealing apples from his orchard.’ *

Hit and miss 
Trial and error*

Hit and run 
Have a car accident and flee from the scene to avoid being caught.*

Hit it off 
Get along well*

Hit list 
A list of people to be assassinated or murdered.*

Hit the books 
Start to study; study hard at the last minute; begin to take
your studies seriously. “I used to leave studying to the
last minute. Then, I would hit the books and do an allnighter before the exam.” “Having to hit the books at the 
last minute is very stressing and not the right way to go
about gaining knowledge.” “If you study on a regular
basis every day, you won’t have to suffer the panic and
insecurity of having to hit the books when it is almost too
late.” *

Hit the bottle 
Start drinking excessively. “I started hitting the bottle
after my wife left me, and I was an alcoholic for the next
twenty years.” *

Hit the bull’s eye 
Just as we hit he center of the target with the arrow, so
we may …. Dead-on*

Hit the ceiling 
Explode with anger; blow your top; hit the roof;
Hit the deck Fall flat on the deck of a ship to avoid being shot by enemy aircraft fire. “In the Navy in the 2WW, when enemy
airplanes strafed the ships, the sailors would be ordered
to hit the deck to try avoid being in the line of fire.” *

Hit the hay 
Lie down on the bed and go to sleep; hit the sack.*

Hit the jackpot 
Win the top prize; suddenly win a lot of money; be on a
roll of success.*

Hit the nail on the head 
Make the exact point; be absolutely right;
Hit the road Time to leave; time to go. “OK boys! It’s closing time.
Finish your drinks and hit the road.” *

Hit the roof 
Be so angry that you go through the ceiling.*

Hive of activity 
Just as beehive is alive with activity so a place or building can be alive with human activity. “This building is a
hive of activity during the day but, at night, it’s so quiet,
you could hear a pin drop.”*

Hobby horse 
Pet peeve; something you like to complain about a lot;
something that always bugs you.*

Hobnobbing-about with 
Enjoying mixing in high society; rubbing shoulders with
the rich and famous; taking pleasure in moving about
with people of a superior position and rank in society
“Hobnobbing-about means tagging-along and hangingaround on a level where you don’t belong.” “Basil spent
a time in his youth hobnobbing and gallivanting-about
town, in high society, before he eventually came home
and turned his attention to managing the family’s business affairs.” “After our Charles finished his studies at
Cambridge, he went to London and spent a year just
hobnobbing-about with classmates and upper-crust
friends, but after he tired of the shallowness of it all, he,
finally, decided to settle-down and join a solid law firm
to work towards his future.”*

Hog the road 
Drive in the middle of the road so no one can get past
you. “Don’t you just hate the sort of driver who hogs the
road so you can’t get past him?”*

Hold a grudge 
Harbor resentment against someone for something. “I
still hold a grudge against my twin brother for the time
he stuck a fork in my eye.” * 

Hold a thing against someone
To resent someone for something that he did to you. … ;
…, but don’t hold it against me*

Hold back 
Hesitate or control your emotions;*

Hold on a moment! 
You just wait a minute; don’t act so hastily; don’t be so
impulsive..*

Hold on tight 
Hold your seat so you don’t fall off. “The roller-coaster
is going around the bend then down a steep incline so
you’d better hold on tight!”*

Hold out for more 
Wait until one gets a better offer; don’t settle for less.
Hold still! Remain still and don’t fidget. “Hold still for a moment,
while I put this injection-needle into your vein. It won’t
hurt a bit.” “Stop your fidgeting around all the time!
Can’t you hold still for even a minute?” *

Hold the fort 
Just as in the so-called American Indians used to attack a
fort in the open prairie and cut the soldiers off from
…reinforcements …*

Hold your breath ………..
“Be still and quiet for a moment and hold your
breath; don’t even breath.” “Don’t hold your breath.”*

Hold your horses. 
Just as a coachman pulls in the reigns to hold his horses
back, so we may tell a person to slow down; stop to
think for a moment before deciding to speak or act; and
not to go rushing into things without judging the situation
first. “Hold your horses! Don’t do or say anything you’ll
be sorry for later; don’t speak to me like that or you will
live to regret it.” “Don’t get angry over nothing; hold
your horses for a minute and consider the consequences
of what you are about to do.” “Don’t speak to me like
that. Hold your horses and control your temper or I’ll
make you feel sorry for the day you were ever born.” *

Hold your tongue.
Don’t say anything; keep the secret; keep quiet; keep
your mouth shut; don’t talk out of turn; stop talking.
“Hold your tongue, and don’t tell anybody yet that I’m
already pregnant.” “Hold your tongue, and don’t give
away our secret.” “If you do not hold your tongue and be
quiet, son, you’ll have to go the bed early with no dinner.” “I’ll stuff a dirty sock in your mouth and tie and
gag you, if I am not confident that you will hold your
tongue about this matter.”*

Holding something back 
Not telling all you know; keeping a secret; maintaining a
hidden motive.*

Holding your own 
Defending your position; surviving; struggling; getting
along all right*

Hold-on! 
Stop right there! Don’t go any further or sat anything
more. “Hold on! What do you think you’re doing? You
can’t …*

Hole in the wall 
A small place to live or go to. “When I was an architecture student, I lived in a small room that that you could
barely call anything more than a hole-in-the wall.” “Abdul’s barber shop was no more than a hole-in- the wall.”
“I go to this small, hole-in-the wall bar in the city where I
meet and talk with artists and poets.”*

Hole in-the head 
Something you definitely do not need. “I must have a
hole-in-my-head to let myself be talked into a crazy stunt
like that.” “I need you as a friend the way I need a
hole in the head.”*

Hole-up for a while 
Go into hiding; keep out-of-sight; lay low; keep a low
profile;*

Hollow leg 
When someone eats so mush that there is no more room
in his stomach, we say that he must have a hollow leg.
“The boys are always joking that Tex eats so much he
must have a hollow leg.” *

Honest buck An honest living. “It’s getting harder and harder to earn
an honest buck these days.” “Dad says that a lot of people who have worked for him would rather steal and
cheat than try to make an honest buck.” *

Honest mistake 
A mistake made unknowingly with no intention to do
wrong. “I’m sorry I took you briefcase. It looks exactly
like mine. It was an honest mistake.”*

Honest to God! 
That’s the real truth. I swear before God! “I never laid a
finger on your sister. That is the honest to God truth.”

Honeymoon is over 
Just as a happy honeymoon couple get to know one another’s faults in the initial period of a marriage, so we
can say that a popular politician has a certain time in office before people begin to discover his faults and mistakes.*

Hoodwink 
Just as a person with a hood over his head cannot see
what is going on, so we may say that one tricks, deceives
or deludes another by leading him on a blind course.
“Harold tricked me out of my life’s savings by purposely
deceiving and misleading me. I never thought a good
friend would hoodwink me like that.” *

Hoof your way home 
Walk home on foot; … “It’s impossible to get a taxi at
this hour, so I guess we’ll just have to hoof-it home.”*

Hop to it 
Jump up and get started in a hurry; move quickly to take
advantage of the situation. “Better hop to it and close the
floodgates before it is too late.”*

Hopeless case 
Beyond help; cannot be cured or helped rehabilitated.*

Hopping-mad 
So angry that the person is almost jumping up and down
on the spot, out-of-control; in the heat of anger; on the
verge of doing something to express/show anger*

Horn in on someone 
Just as a bull may use its horns to cut or force its way in
to where it wants to get to, so we say a person horns in
on another when …*

Hornet’s nest 
Just as there will be hell to pay if one steps on a hornet’s
nest, so one may say one has stepped on a hornets nest
when he has opened up a sensitive issue or topic. *

Horns of the dilemma 
Just as a bull has two horns, either which can maim and
hurt you, so a person can be in a dilemma situation in
which he must choose between two divergent alternatives.*

Horsing around 
Fooling around; playing around; goofing around. “OK,
kids, it’s time to stop horsing around and quiet down and
pay attention to the teacher.” “Sheila doesn’t like the way
the boys are always horsing around and expressing their
youthful exuberance.” “If you don’t stop your horsing
around, I’ll call my Dad to come in and make you stop
it.”*

Hot air 
A lot of empty self- inflated egotistical or conceited talk.
“I tell you, that guy is full of hot air; he’s so fullof lies,
it’s a wonder he doesn’t rise like a helium balloon into
the skies.” *

Hot and bothered 
Excited; aroused; worked-up or displeased. “She gets me
all hot and bothered and then tells me to stop because she
doesn’t want to go any further.” “Porno flicks do not
make me feel hot and bothered. They bore me.” “Don’t
let yourself get all hot and bothered about what people
say. Just ignore them”*

Hot potato 
A hot issue tossed back and forth because nobody wants
to deal with it.*

Hot stuff! 
Good looking, sexy and attractive.*

Hot tip 
Inside information on a good bet or investment*

Hot under the collar 
Becoming heated-up and getting angry. “Don’t get so hot
under the collar when I try to give you constructive criticism. Can’t you see I’m trying to help you?”*

Hothead 
Someone who gets angry easily. “Don’t be such a hothead. Cool down and take a moment to think before you
react impulsively and say something you’ll be sorry for.”*

Hotshot 
Someone who thinks he can do everything better than
anyone else. “OK, hotshot, If you think you are so smart,
you solve the problem.”*

Hot-tempered 
Easily angered.*

Hot-to-trot 
Just as a racing horse may be ready and eager to run at
the opening of the starting gate, so a person may be said
to be ready and raring to go in certain situations. “Marion
looks like she’s hot–to-trot. I think I’ll ask her out on a
date.” “Ervin’s wife always looks like she is hot to trot,
but Ervin tells me she is not.” *

Hound to death 
Keep asking for something doggedly until the other person is bored to death hearing about it.*

House of cards 
A shaky structure; a plan that is poorly put together; will
fall down easily; shaky; unstable.*

Household name 
A name that everybody knows;*

House-to-house … 
Going to every house, or from one house to the next, in a particular area or road.

How can I ever make it up to you?
How can I show my gratitude? How thankful I am;

How come?
 Why is that so? “How come it’s dark at night and light in
the day?” “How come Daddy didn’t come home last
night?” “How come you’re leaving your husband?”*

How low can you go?
How’s life treating you? How are you doing? “Hello old boy! How’s life treating
you? Well, I hope.” *

Hullabaloo 
The sound, clamor and tumult of voices upraised in a
crowd of people, making a roaring din, hubbub; commotion; noisy racket. “I hear crowds of people clamoring in
the corridors. What’s the hullabaloo? What’s the big to
do? What’s the problem this time?” “Thousands of protesters and activists were gathered outside the presidential palace, making a big hullabaloo about holding a democratic election.” “When the news broke that there
would be a three percent raise in value added tax, there
was a big hullabaloo in the media, but things have quieted down now.”*

Human error 
Caused by human negligence.*

Humiliating circumstances
Humbling, demeaning conditions that make you feel afraid.*

Humor someone; 
Play along and pretend to listen in an insincere or condescending way;*

Humorous anecdote 
Re-telling of an incident as a funny story*

Hunger for knowledge 
Thirst for learning; strong desire for learning.*

Hunt down 
Chase and follow someone just like hounds follow a fox
until he is caught.*

Hurry-up-and-wait. 
Official orders are to wait for further orders which may
or may not come at any time.*

Hurt pride 
Injured sense of self-respect. “someone who is very
proud of himself with a big ego will …*

Hush money 
Money paid on the side to keep quiet. “Politicians keep
people quiet by paying them hush money not to say anything or tell what they know.” “When hush money does
not work, they sometimes decide to have the person
killed.” *

Hush-hush 
On the quiet; to be kept secret. “Let’s keep what we
know on the hush-hush. It wouldn’t do to let everybody
know, would it?” *

Hustle and bustle 
Commotion; confusion; chaos; hurly-burly; crowds of
people moving about*

Hustle your bustle 
Hurry-up and get a move on; show some activity; get
down- to-work quickly; begin to work energetically;
move your butt/bustle. “You’d better hustle your bustle,
or you’ll never get that report finished before the due
deadline.” “I’d better hustle my bustle and get a move on
or I’ll be late for my own wedding.” “If you don’t hustle 
your bustle and start to show some energy, for a change,
I’ll give you a low-rating in your annual efficiency review.”*

Hyped-up 
Get all enthusiastic and worked-up.*

Hysteria broke out. 
Pandemonium broke loose;*

I beg to differ 
Please excuse me if I express a different opinion.*

I can barely hear myself think.
It is so loud in here that I can hardly concentrate.*

I can’t bear it anymore! 
It’s too much for me! It’s more that in can stand! “I cannot tolerate your complaining any longer. It is more than
I can bear!”*

I can’t bear that man! 
I cannot tolerate that man! I can’t stand to see him! I find
him unbearable. ………. I cannot stomach that man! I
cannot bear him!” …*

I can’t stand it! 
It’s driving me crazy; I can’t tolerate it any more! I can’t
bear it!*

I can’t take it anymore! 
I’ve had enough; reached the end of my patience; I’m
fed-up.*

I cannot condone that. 
I cannot accept that; I do not want such a thing to take
place; I cannot approve of such an action; I will not grant
my approval; overlook; ignore; excuse. “I know that
there is corruption going-on in government projects and I
cannot condone it.” “I know that you claim the end justifies the means; nevertheless, I cannot condone your actions.” “I cannot condone the cloning of human beings,
because I think it goes against nature.” “I cannot condone
that taking of human life, even if it is done within and in
accordance with the law.”*

I could kick myself 
I am so angry with myself for what I did wrong or forgot
or neglected to do. “I could kick myself for not paying
better attention in English class when I was younger.” *

I could kill you! 
I am very angry with you for what you have done. “I’m
very angry with you for telling all the boys about our private affairs. I’m so mad I could kill you!”*

I couldn’t care less I’m not bothered; I’m indifferent. “Say what you like
about me. I couldn’t care less.”*

I don’t get it. 
I don’t quite understand.*

I don’t get the thrust of your argument
I can’t follow the point or logic of what you are trying to
say; I don’t see the main purpose or idea.*

I don’t have a clue. 
I have absolutely no idea. “I don’t have clue what time it is. Do you have a watch?” *

I don’t have all day. 
Hurry-up and get a move on because I’m in a big rush;
do what I ask without making me wait long; “I’m feeling
impatient because you are taking too long, so get a move
on before I break out into a fit of impatience.” “Why
don’t you answer me? Speak up now. I don’t have all
day.” “What’s the hold-up? Get a move and on give me
the invoice, immediately. I don’t have all day!” “If the
doctor does not see me soon, I’m going to leave. I can’t
wait any longer. I don’t have all day.”*

I don’t want to shoot from the hip.
Talk without thinking first; just saying what ever comes
into my head without thinking about the consequences.
“Give me some time to think before I speak. I don’t want
to shoot from the hip.” “Just as a gun-slinger must shoot
from the hip and be fast on the draw, so we may say a
person shoot from the hip when he makes a defensive or
offensive remark because he must considering the consequences.” “Take time to make the decision, and don’t
just shoot from the hip without due deliberation.” *

I dread to think! 
I tremble to think. I shudder to think! “I dread to think
what would happen if my husband knew I was seeing
you.” “I dread to think what would happen if suddenly
my source of income were cut off.” *

I fancy you. 
I like you; you seem very nice to me; I could fall in love
with you. “I can’t keep it a secret any longer. I’m sweet
on you. I fancy you.” “I can’t keep my eyes off of you. It
must be obvious to everyone that I fancy you.” “I not
only fancy you. I’d like you as my girlfriend and a wife.”*

I figure that … 
I reckon that; I anticipate that; I think that. “I figure that
big money interests are in the process of trying to control
the world and create a new world order of a rich elite.” *

I get a kick out of you …; 
You give me a charge; I get a bang out of you.

I get the picture 
I see and understand what you are telling me.*

I got burned! 
I was cheated!*

I got my wires crossed 
I short-circuited;*

I haven’t the foggiest notion
I have absolutely no idea; I couldn’t even guess; I haven’t a clue.*

I hear you loud and clear. 
I can hear and understand exactly what you mean; I understand what you are saying to me.*

I know where you live. 
If you do anything to upset me I’ll come to your house
and harm you and your family. “You’d better keep what
you know a secret. I know where you live.” *

I owe you one 
Thanks, for helping me. I owe you a favor.*

I stand corrected. 
I understand my mistake now that it has been explained
to me.*

I wouldn’t be caught … ; 
“There’s no way I’m going to … “No! I wont go to 
dead with the reception with you. I wouldn’t want to be caught
dead with you!”*

I wouldn’t like to be in your shoes.
I would not wish to change positions with you. I
wouldn’t like to be in your skin.*

I wouldn’t mess with him if I were you.
I would not do anything to make him upset if I were in
your position; wouldn’t go up against him; wouldn’t oppose his will; wouldn’t get in his way; wouldn’t try to get
him angry; wouldn’t give him a hard time. “Be careful, I
wouldn’t try to mess with Pinky, if I were you, or he’ll
beat you black and blue.” “Don’t mess with anybody
from the Hells Angels motorcycle gang or you’ll be
sorry.” “You’d better not mess with me, or I’ll make you
regret the day you were ever born.”*

I wouldn’t put it past you 
I wouldn’t be surprised to learn that you had done such a
dirty deed.*

I wouldn’t wish it on anyone.
This is a situation that I would not wish even my worst
enemy to have to face.*

I’ll blow up. 
I will lose control and get angry.*

I’ll clip you one. 
I will slap or smack or hot you. If you lie to me again, I clip you one over the ear.”*

I’ll fix your wagon. 
Just as in the old days one might have ‘fixed’ someone’s
wagon so that it would break down under way, so nowadays we threaten to do something to get revenge for a
real or imagined wrong.*

I’ll get back to you. 
I’ll call you back; I’ll let you know what happens; I’ll
talk to you later about this. “let me look into the situation, and I’ll get back to you……….” “ …. And when I
have the timed, I’ll get back to you.” *

I’ll get down to work. 
I’ll start work immediately. “I can see that this job is urgent, so I will get down to work right away.” “If you
don’t get down to work immediately, you’ll not be finished before the deadline.”*

I’ll get even with you. 
I’ll revenge myself on you; I’ll pay you back for what
you have done.*

I’ll have to think about that.
Give me some time for consideration.*

I’ll make you a proposal 
Let me make a suggestion that might help solve the situation.*

I’ll not kowtow to any man
I’ll not bow-down and obey anyone.*

I’ll skin you alive. 
Scold severely; spank the pants off; give someone a good
beating; hiding; whipping; licking.*

I’ll stick to you through thick and thin.
I will be a loyal and trustworthy friend through times of
trouble to the end*

I’ll swap you for it! 
I’ll trade you mine for yours.*

I’ll tear your head off … 
“I’m so angry! I’ll tear your head off when I get a
hold of you.”*

I’ll wash your mouth out 
Don’t use dirty words if you don’t want to have your 
with soap. mouth washed out with soap.*

I’ll wring your neck. 
Just as people used to kill chickens bt wringing their
necks, so we mat say to another that …*

I’m a goner! 
I’m in so much trouble now that it’s going to be the end
of me; I’m finished; I’ll have a heavy price to pay.*

I’m afraid so! 
I’m sorry, but that is the situation; that is an undeniable
fact.*

I’m all ears. 
Eager to listen; anxious to hear what you are going to
say; waiting to hear what you have to say. “Tell me …
I’m all ears.”*

I’m an open book 
You can look right into my heart and see everything. “I
haven’t got a secret in the world. I’m an open book. You
can look right into my heart and see everything.” *

I’m as good as gone. 
I’m in such big trouble that I an about to be fired, expelled, kicked out.*

I’m banking on you. 
I trust you and I am depending on you to come through
and help me. “*

I’m blotto. 
Very drunk; intoxicated; inebriated; so under the influence that you can’t think right anymore. “I’m blotto. I so
drunk I forgot whether I came to the party with my wife
or not.” “Don’t ask me to tell you my address. I’m too
blotto to remember.” “I was sober until I had my sixth
gin and tonic, but now I’m on my tenth, and I’m completely blotto.”*

I’m bushed. 
I’m really tired-out. “I bushed from working so hard, and I’m going to go to bed and get some well-needed rest.”*

I’m buzzed. 
High on drugs or alcohol; with head buzzing from the
effects of stimulants. “Don’t ask me to think straight. I’m
too buzzed.” “Hey man, don’t make me drink another
beer. My head is swirling, and I’m buzzed enough already.” “I know what I want to say, but I can’t explain
how I feel because I’m too buzzed.”*

I’m cooked. 
When the truth comes out, the blame and punishment
will fall upon me; I’m in big trouble now; there will be
no escaping the consequences; there’s no way to get out
of my situation, like the goose that is already being
cooked in the oven “When the company finds out I authorized that incorrect audit report, I will be cooked. That
will be the end of my professional career.” “Now that
everyone knows I forged my educational transcripts and
never even studied medicine, my goose is cooked.” “If
the tax department officials learn the way that I have
cooked the books, I’ll be cooked too. Along with the
books.”*

I’m fed-up 
Had enough; can’t take it anymore; can’t put up with it
any longer; sick-and-tired, bored-to-the teeth; don’t want
to do or hear it anymore. “I’m so fed-up with my job that 
I am bored-to-tears and ready to resign.” “I’m fed up
with hearing my father say that as long as I live in his
house, I will follow rules.” “Zack was so fed-up with his
family and teachers telling him what to do all the time,
that one day he skipped school and ran away from
home.” “Darling, I know that you love me and mean
well, but I’m fed-up with listening to your complaining
all the time.”*

I’m feeling jumpy. 
Frightened by the slightest sound or unexpected movement; edgy; touchy; easily-agitated; easily-shocked; hypersensitive-sensitive. “I’m feeling quite jumpy these
days. I’m startled by the slightest unexpected sound. It
must be because my nerves have been a bit on edge recently” “Little Sally is so jumpy that she jumps in shock
whenever there is any unexpected movement near her.”
“The troops were feeling jumpy and on edge as they
waited for the enemy attack to commence.” “Sorry, if I
seem irritable. I’m feeling a bit sensitive and jumpy due
to a nervous disorder.”*

I’m going to get you. 
I’ll get revenge on you. “I want you always to remember
that I know where you live and one day, I am going to
get you when you least expect it.” *

I’m going to nail you. 
Just as Jesus Christ was nailed to the cross ………..I’m
going to catch you and make you pay for what you have
done. I’m going to nail you one of these days!*

I’m goners 
I’m in trouble now and I wont be around much longer.*

I’m in a mess 
In trouble; in a fix*

I’m in for it! 
I’m in for trouble now!*

I’m in the soup. 
Caught and about to be cooked or punished, with no
chance of escape, much as a chicken might be caught and
chopped up to be put in the soup; in serious trouble; in a
fix; being blamed; facing reproach; in difficulty; having
problems; doomed. “I have borrowed money at high interest rates that I cannot pay and I’m definitely in the
soup now.” “If my boss finds out that I have been wooing his wife, I will really be in the soup.” “Mother has
found out that I have been stealing money from her
purse, and, now, I’m really in the soup.”*

I’m not asking. 
I’m telling!*

I am not requesting you to do something. 
I am giving you a direct order.*

I’m perishing. 
I’m very hungry; I’m almost starving.*

I’m really beat. 
Very tired; exhausted from working.*

I’m shot Tired out
I’m so grateful. I am so thankful and full of gratitude.

I’m soft on you. 
I have got a weak spot for you;*

I’m strapped for cash 
Short of money; broke; not well-off; poor; impoverished.
“Can you lend me fifty Dollars? I can’t pay my telephone
bill because I’m strapped for cash.” “If I had the money, 
I would buy your car on the spot, but, at the moment, I’m
afraid that I’m not poorly-off and strapped for cash.” “I
can’t raise a red cent because I am so strapped for cash.”*

I’m stumped.
Don’t know the answer; can’t figure it out; it’s beyond
me; at a loss for an answer; confused; bewildered.
“Frankie doesn’t know what to do to solve the problem.
He’s stumped” “I can’t figure out how to jiggle the numbers so that we can show a profit this month. I ‘m
stumped.” “It’s beyond me how a lovely girl like that
could have married a loser like Harry. I’m stumped.”*

I’m totally cleaned-out. 
I have no money; I’m broke; I’m out-of-cash ; I’ve lost
every thing; I haven’t a penny to my name; I’ve gone
bankrupt. “I’ve gone bust; I’m totally cleaned-out.”
“Sorry, I have no money to lend you. I’m totally cleanedout myself.” “I wish I could make a donation to the
earthquake victims, but I’m totally cleaned-out and have
nothing left to give.” I squandered every last red cent,
until I was totally cleaned-out.”*

I’m touched. 
Feeling emotionally grateful; moved at heart because of
kindness; pleasantly surprised by another’s thoughtfulness. “I’m touched that a great artist like you would take
time to encourage a little man like me in my efforts.”
“Karen was touched at heart to see her husband holding
their new baby.” “Sarah was touched when her husband,
Reginald, remembered to give her flowers on their wedding anniversary.” “It was a touching scene to see three
generations of family members together at a harmonious
family reunion.”*

I’m wise to you. 
I know your tricks; I know what you are up to; you cannot fool me.*

I’ve been duped. 
Someone has deceived me; fooled me; I fell for a false
story; I was led to believe an untruth; was taken in by an
old trick; taken in by a ploy; taken for a sucker; led to
believe a falsehood. “I believed her when she said she
loved me for my goodness and not my money, but after I
found out that she was a dirty, lying gold-digger, I realized I had been duped.” “An Amway representative
talked me into believing that I could get rich and become
independent by recruiting all my friends to participate in
a sales network but after a year of trying, I realized it was
just a pyramid scheme and that I had been duped.” “The
committee was duped by an unscrupulous architect into
believing that the project could be completed successfully within one year if they donated another million dollars.”*

I’ve been had 
I have been cheated; tricked; fooled; I believed a liar; I was the victim of an illegal action; I fell for the line of a
con man and thief; I trusted someone who deceived me. *

I’ve been in hot water before.
This is not the first time I have been in trouble.*

I’ve been stung! 
I have been cheated by a conman! This was a setup!*

I’ve got my eye on you. 
I have been watching you (i) either because I like you or
(ii) because I’m trying to catch you doing something
wrong..*

I’ve got to hand it to you. 
I have to give you credit for your cleverness or decisiveness. “I’ve got to hand it to you for the way you stepped
in and solved the problem.”*

I’ve got you pegged. 
Just as we can peg an animal with a rope to the ground
so that it has little room in which to move, so we can say
we have got a person pegged. “I’ve got you pegged as a
fraud, because. I can provide evidence to prove your
claim is untrue.” “I see through your greedy and evil intentions. I’ve got you pegged” “I know that’s what you
say to all the girls. You can’t fool me.” I’ve got you
pegged.”*

I’ve got your number. 
I have got you figured out and I know what tricks you are
using.*

I’ve had a belly-full. 
That’s enough of that I have had quite enough.*

I’ve had a long day! 
Don’t talk to me now about any problems. I am already
stressed enough from the problems I have had throughout
the day. “*

I’ve only got two hands. 
Can’t you see that I am already busy and both my hands
are full?*

I’ve seen better days. 
I was better off in the past; things are in decline.*

I’ve seen everything now!
That is the most unbelievable bad action I have ever
seen!*

Ice-breaker 
Something to say to break the silence and get people
talking; a warm-up session so every body gets acquainted; a way of getting two strongly opposing sides to
start thawing out the resentment in their relationship.
“Just as an ice-breaker, to get a conversation started, I
made a comment about the nice weather.” “As an icebreaker, the seminar leader got the participants to say a
few words about themselves.” “In the multilateral talks,
delegates from the opposing nations began negotiations
with a discussion of the mutual benefits of opening up
cross border trade.”*

Icing on the cake 
Something extra special on top of everything else.*

Ideal couple 
Two people wedded together in a perfect marriage which
should serve as a model for others; marriage partners
who serve as an example; who are perfectly-matched; get
along perfectly; appear to be the perfect couple; a husband and wife team that are the envy of all. “John and
Jackie Kennedy appeared to be the ideal couple, until
news about his extra-marital affairs began to leak-out.”
“There can be no such thing as the ideal couple as long 
as one partner has different wishes than the other.”
“When we first got married, everyone thought and said
that we were the ideal couple, but as the years went by
and we grew in different directions, the foundations of
our marriage became more and more shaky.”*

If I may take the liberty 
If you will allow me to …*

If you know what’s good for you ...
Be careful not to do the wrong thing so that you’ll cause
yourself harm; don’t draw negative attention yourself
that will get you into trouble; avoid causing trouble and
be careful and stay out of harm’s way; be cautious and
avoid provoking anyone; stay out of trouble for your own
good. “If you know what’s good for you, you will avoid
having casual sex without using a condom.” “I you know
what’s good for you, you’d better do as your father
wishes, or you will get the licking of your life.” “If you
know what’s good for you, you’d better do as you have
been ordered, or you’ll be charged with disobeying your
commanding officer.”*

Ignorance is no excuse
Imagine that! Wow! Just think of that! Is such a thing possible?*

Imagining things
Immoderate behavior Actions and deeds that deviate from the mean; excessive
…; lacking restraint.*

Immodest behavior
Impartial opinion An unbiased, neutral opinion or view.*

Impending disaster Immanent catastrophe.
Impertinent child Insolent, cheeky child. “You impudent little pup! I have
never seen such an impertinent child in all my years.” …*

Implausible excuse 
An unlikely and improbable excuse.*

Impose upon 
Intrude on someone and require something.*

Impossible task
A feat that is too hard to accomplish*

Impulsive action 
An instinctual action made without thinking;*

In a bind 
Facing a dilemma situation.*

In a blind alley 
A dead end; going nowhere; in a cul-de-sac; no way to
go further; run out of possibilities. “After three years of
intensive research, we found that we’d run out of possibilities and come to a blind alley, so we had to give up
trying and were forced to shut the project down.”*

In a class of your own 
There’s nobody like you; no one can compare with you;
you defy categorization. “No one can play golf on the
level of Tiger Woods. He’s in a class of his own.” “Nobody can compare with you when it comes to interior
design based on the emptiness of Zen Buddhism You’re
in a class of your own” “Darling, I have never once in
my life ever encountered a woman like you. You’re in a
class of your own.”*

In a fix 
In trouble; in a difficult spot, in a sticky situation; in need
of help to get out of a problem that needs fixing; in hot
water. “I’m in a fix because my money has not yet come
through from the USA, and I need to pay a ten percent
deposit on my rental agreement by the end of the day.”
“I’m in a bit of a fix, because I have to be in two places
at once tomorrow night. Could you take my son to the
football game while I am at the reception at the Swedish
embassy?” “I’m in a fix because my car has broken
down, and I have to be at the dentist’s in thirty minutes.
Can you lend me your car for about two hours?”*

In a flash of the eye 
In a second; in a moment;*

In a goldfish bowl 
Living in luxury where everyone can see and judge everything you do.*

In a heartbeat 
In the time it takes for the heart to beat once; in an instant; in a second; right away; immediately. “Just a second. I’ll be with you in a heartbeat.” “As soon as I
touched the door knob, within a heartbeat, the alarm device went off.” “I’d have gone to his aid in a heartbeat if
only I’d known he needed me.” “She would accept
within a heart beat if I asked her to become my bride.”*

In a jam 
In a difficult situation; in a problem you got your self
into and can’t get yourself out of; in a fix; in trouble.
“I’m in a jam because of cash flow problems, and I need
to borrow a ten thousand until tomorrow. Can you help
me out?” “I’m in a jam because I got my girlfriend pregnant. We don’t want to get an abortion and we don’t
know what to do.” “I’m in a jam because I’m supposed
to take both my wife and my girlfriend to the same office
party, and I don’t want them to find out about one another. What would you do if you were in my place?”*

In a jiffy 
In just a second; in a minute.*

In a pickle 
Just as cucumbers are soaked in vinegar when pickles are
made, so a person may find himself “in a pickle,” so-tospeak, if he finds himself in difficulties that are not so
easy to get out of; in trouble; in a jam; in a fix; in so
deep, it’s hard to get out; in a predicament. “I have mistakenly made two important appointments in two different cities at the same time, on the same date. I’ve got
myself in a pickle that I don’t know how to get out of.”
“Jamison, our accountant, is in a pickle because the
Revenue Department is starting a tax review, and the
books don’t quite balance.” “I’ll really be in a pickle if
there is not enough money in my bank account to cover
the cost of my monthly fixed-expenses.”

In a pinch 
Tight, difficult situation;

In a quandary 
Confused; not sure what to do/decide. I’m in a quandary
about what to do about … 

In a rut 
Just as a cart wheel leaves a rut in a dirt road, so we ……

In a slump 
Going through a bad period; on the downswing; sales
have slowed; feeling depressed; on a losing streak; can’t
seem to pull out of a low (or a trough). “Sales are in a
slump period at the moment but are expected to be on the
upswing as the Christmas season approaches.” “The Giants have lost three games in a row, but they’re expected
to pull them selves out of their slump by winning the
next two home games.” “Oil prices have been dropping
for two weeks, but the market is taking regulatory measures to pull itself out of this slump.” I’ll have to do something about my emotional slump. I’ve been feeling really
down and depressed since mid-term exams, and I don’t
quite know how to pull myself out of it.”

In a sorry state 
In bad condition; in poor circumstances; in a miserable
state of affairs; in bad shape; in a sad situation; in a
wretched position. “The city architect inspected the housing development after the tenants had departed and found
they had left it in a sorry state.” “The national economy
of Somalia finds itself in a sorry state indeed.” “When we
finally found Uncle Phillip, in a sleazy hotel, after a
week of boozing, without eating properly, he was in a
very sorry state.”

In a stupor 
In capable of understanding; in a daze or dream; in a
trance or coma; unconscious of what is happening; unaware of what is going-on; as if too stupid to comprehend. “Whenever I drink three bottles of whiskey in a
row in one night, I find myself in a stupor for the next
three days.” “The doctor said that the patient was in a
stupor and unable to understand or answer questions.”
“Someone who is too stupid to understand may be said to
be in a stupor.”

In broad daylight 
Out in front of everyone so every one can see.

In cahoots 
Conspiring together with; in league with.

In cold blood 
Mercilessly; without pity; with no feeling; heartlessly;
without moral compunction.

In collusion with 
Conspiring together; in cahoots with

In compliance with 
In accordance with. “In compliance with the law all foreigners must inform the immigration department of any
change of address within fourteen days.”

In dog’s ages 
For a long time

In donkey’s years 
For a long, long time. “Well, hello Donald. How are
you” I haven’t seen you in donkey’s years.” “It has been
donkeys years since … 

In dribs and drabs 
A little bit at a time;

In his heyday 
At the peak of his career and fame.

In hot water 
Just as one might be about-to-be cooked in a big pot of
hot water and eaten by cannibals, so one might say one is
‘in the soup,’ so-to-speak; in serious trouble; facing big
difficulties. “I’m in hot water because my wife has realized that I have been making-love to the babysitter.”
“I’m in hot water because I’ve lost the client’s passport,
and he needs an exit visa by tomorrow.” “I’d better get
home before midnight because my Mom said that I’d be
in hot water if I came in one second after twelve.”

In hysterics 
Laughing hysterically.

In jeopardy 
In danger;

In keeping with 
In accordance with; following the guidelines of .

In league with 
In cahoots with; in alliance with; in collusion with.

In line for a promotion 
Due to be promoted soon.

In line with 
Following the guidelines or provisions of; in accordance
with; adhering to the accepted way of practice. “In line
with the spirit of charity, we should always try to help
others when we can.”

In my books 
In my opinion; in my estimation; what I think.

In my element 
Feeling at home;

In my humble opinion
In no uncertain terms Definitely, without question.

In nothing flat 
Suddenly

In on it 
With a piece of the action; in league with; part of the
conspiracy.

In one fell swoop 
Just as an eagle swoops down from the sky and grabs its
prey, so we can say that something bad happens quickly
in one fell swoop. “He started taking high risks in the
stock-market, and, in one fell swoop, all of his assets
suddenly disappeared into thin air.” “

In pecking order 
Just as chickens in the roost have an order in which the
stronger ones peck with their beaks at the weaker ones,
so people may be said to be put into pecking order within
the family, group or workforce. “We have a pecking order in our house. Mother rules the roost, next, comes my
father, then, my two big brothers, then, my older sister,
and, then, me. I am at the bottom of the pecking order.”
“Sociologists have done research studied to determine
what factors influence the pecking order within social,
human groups.” “Mrs. Crabtree runs her office like a
henhouse, with a clearly understood pecking order. She
comes first, then, her personal aide, then, the assistant 
manager, and, then, the rest of us in order of seniority.”

In pristine condition 
Like new; almost perfect; spotless; immaculate. “I want
to sell one of my classic cars, namely, a 1978 Benz, two
door coupe, in pristine condition which looks as good as
new.” In Greece, they are still digging-up ceramic artifacts which are in pristine condition.” “At a recent auction, Catherine bought an ancient, antique Egyptian necklace which was in pristine condition.” “

In quest of 
Searching and striving towards.

In so many words 
In short summary

In someone’s good books 
A person likes you; thinks well of you; would depend on
you; could trust you; would do you a favor or recommend you if asked; has taken mental note of your good
qualities;

In the air 
Pending; as yet undecided; not yet concluded.

In the bag 
It’s a sure thing! We can’t miss! We can’t lose!

In the black 
Making a profit

In the blink of an eye 
In a second; in an instant; so quickly that you almost
don’t see it.

In the bud 
In the beginning phase.

In the cards 
According to fate and fortune

In the clear 
Innocent of all charges; free from difficulty;

In the dark 
Ignorant of; with no knowledge of; do not know; have no
knowledge about; with no answer; no idea; hidden
knowledge about; not informed. “Researchers are still in
the dark about how to find a cure for this disease.” “I
wish I could tell you when the world will disappear into a
black hole, but scientists are jut as much in the dark as I
am on this subject.” “The government is purposely keeping the public in the dark concerning evidence about
UFO’s.”

In the doghouse 
In disgrace; in trouble; in disfavor; out of favor; suffering
humility for your mistakes until you will be forgiven.
“I’m in the doghouse now, because I forgot to pick up
Nelly for our date.” “Charlie’s in the doghouse with his
wife because he forgot to give her a Valentine’s gift.”
“I’ll be in the doghouse with my boss for a while, until I
get this case through the court and finally collect the outstanding bill from the client.”

In the driving seat 
In charge; in control; in command; be the one who decides; the one who makes the decisions. “My mother is
more strong-willed than my father, so when it comes to
making family decisions, she is in the driving seat.”
“Don’t ask me what you should do. You’re the boss. You
are in the driving seat, so you tell me what to do.” “I 
thought we were equal partners in this relationship.. I
don’t see why you are the one who always has to be in
the driver’s seat.”

In the final analysis 
In the end; at the end of the day; the final result.

In the foreseeable future 
As far ahead as we can see or predict into the future.

In the hole 
In debt

In the hot seat 
In trouble; being blamed and questioned.

In the know 
Well-informed due to being close to the source; having
secret information; insider information; being in the select few who know something that others do not. “If I
had been one of the few in the know that the Baht was
going to decline drastically in value, I would have
changed all of my money into US Dollars beforehand.”
“Those in the know about matter of national security are
sworn to secrecy not to let outsiders know what they
know.” “Stock brokers who are in the know regarding
secret insider market information can go to jail if they
use said information for their own profit or benefit.”

In the lap of luxury 
Living in a situation of affluence with every comfort.

In the limelight 
In the spotlight; the center of positive attention at the
moment.

In the line of duty 
While doing your job, especially as a soldier, policeman
or fireman; carrying out the responsibilities of your job;
“Policemen are sometimes killed in the line of duty.”

In the manner to which I am accustomed
The way I am used to living.

In the money 
Having come into cash suddenly.

In the next breath 
In next to no time

In the paddy wagon 
In the police van that picks up drunks and takes them to
the police station.

In the pink of health 
Very fit and healthy;

In the red 
In debt;

In the same boat

In the same breath 
At one and the same time.

In the spotlight 
To be at the center of attention; to be very popular at the
moment; to need to draw attention to yourself to get everyone’s attention.’

In the thick of battle 
Just as soldiers are exposed to danger in the thick of battle, so we may say politicians or businessmen are in the
thick of battle when …..

In the time-being 
Meanwhile; for the moment.

In the way 
Blocking the path;

In the works (in process) 
In the process of being completed at the moment; preparations have begun; procedures have been started in order to get things underway; official paperwork is passing
through channels to get permission; plans are being
made, effort is being made to fulfill the task. “The architectural plans have been completed, and the preparations
for construction are in the works.” “An application has
been made and the granting of permission is in the
works.” “Planning for the new international airport is in
the works.”

In the wrong 
Against what is right; against justice; guilty

In too deep already 
Too deeply involved in trouble already.

In touch with 
Keeping up contact with.

In tow 
Just a ship may be pulling a barge in toe behind it,
so…….. With someone following behind;

In two shakes 
In two seconds. … “ if you can wait two shakes

In your birthday suit 
Stark naked; with no clothes on; the way you were born.

In your dotage 
In your old age; in advanced years; when you are getting
dotty.

In your own way 
The way you want.

In your right mind 
Not crazy;

Inane comment 
Stupid remark;

Incoherent nonsense

Incorrigible behavior

Indiscreet question

Indiscreet remark ……… ; 
Careless, thoughtless comment

Indulge yourself 
Do something to give yourself a treat; give yourself
something you think that you deserve; allow yourself to
enjoy something for your own pleasure. “I think I’ll indulge myself and eat another slice of ice cream cake.”
“Sometimes you should indulge yourself and do something good for yourself for a change, like booking into a
five star hotel for the weekend.” “Although Bert didn’t
normally drink alcohol, he decided to indulge himself
and have a glass of Champagne.”

Inept attempt

Inexcusable behavior

Infamous character 
Someone known for their immoral action and bad deeds.

Infect with enthusiasm

Infectious laughter

In-fighting 
Squabbling; bickering; internal strife; …; “In our office,
there is a lot of in-fighting about who gets preferential
treatment.”

Inflammatory remark 
A comment that causes anger and outrage. 

Inflated-opinion of yourself

Inform someone of 
To give official notice of; to notify; to let someone know.

Informed of 
Means that someone has informed someone of something. “The company has been informed of the new tax
regulations by the Revenue Department.” “The staff has
been informed by management that there would be no
bonus this year.” “The general public has been informed
by the government that there will be an increase in VAT
to ten percent commencing on the first of January.”

Informed sources

Informed that 
Means that someone has told someone that something is
the case. “The company has been informed that there will
be an intensive tax review commencing at the end of the
fiscal year.” “

Inner solitude

Inner-peace

Inopportune moment 
At an embarrassing or inconvenient moment.

Insatiable appetite 
An appetite that can never be satisfied; never get enough;
greedy; voracious; unquenchable.

Inscrutable expression 
Impossible to read or interpret the look on someone’s
face;

Inside job

Inside-information

Inside-out (garment) 
Garment

Inside-out (book) 
Backwards and forwards; really-well; by rote memory;

Inside-scoop 
News straight from the original source; the horse’s
mouth.

Insolent attitude 
Disrespectful, cheeky, impudent manner. “Teachers who
are too strict cause some pupils to develop an insolent
attitude.” “My psychiatrist says I have an insolent attitude because of resentment about the way I was treated
in my childhood.” “Jack has an insolent attitude towards
the upper classes because he was born in the lower
classes.”

Insolent remark 
A rude or disrespectful comment; rude, impudent, impertinent statement. “What a cheeky little boy you are to
make such an insolent remark that your teacher looks like
a hedgehog.” “Your insolent remarks and behavior have
shown you do not know how to behave like a young gentleman, so you are being expelled from this school as a
result.” “The leader of the opposition made the insolent
remark that the Prime Minister was not even fit to lead a
flock of sheep to slaughter.”

Insufficient evidence …; 
Not enough evidence to get a conviction;

Insufficient funds

Intense hatred

Interfere in someone else’s affairs

Interject a comment

Intervene between

Intestinal fortitude 
Guts; courage; strength and determination.

In-the-offing 
About to begin; going to start soon.

Intimidate someone

Into thin air 
Into empty nothingness

Invasion of privacy

Inviting trouble 
Asking for trouble.

Involved argument 
Complicated argument.

Iron out the wrinkles

Iron out your differences

Iron will 
Unbending intent;

Iron-clad argument 
Just as ancient knights rode iron-clad in their armor into
a …

Irons in the fire

Irresistible urge 
An impulsive desire to have or try something.

Irreverent attitude

It all boils down to 
In the final analysis; the final essence; at the end of the
day;

It boggles the mind

It bombed It was a failure.

It cost me an arm and a leg.

It was very expensive.

It does no harm to …; 
Try…ask… ‘There’s no harm in trying... It does no
harm to ask.”

It doesn’t add up.

It doesn’t make common sense.

It finally crystallized 

It finally clicked; 
I got the idea; the concept became clear.

It finally dawned on me. 
Just as the dawn of the morning takes some time before
the sun has arisen, so people sometimes take a while to
realize something they have been trying to figure out for
a while. “It finally dawned on me that people seemed to
dislike me because I was being too selfish and not thinking of others.” “I had been wondering about the cause of
my wife’s dissatisfaction, when it finally dawned on me
that I was not showing her enough attention.” “I couldn’t
remember where my father had said he’d hidden the
money, it finally dawned on me that he’d told me he’d
stuffed it in his hiking- boots.”

It isn’t worth the paper it’s printed on.
A written-promise or vow of little value that cannot be
trusted; a worthless contract or written agreement that
has no legal basis or validity; a published premise or theory that is wrong and invalid. “This rental agreement
isn’t worth the paper it’s written on; the landlord does 
not have the title-deed to the property.” “Your promise is
not worth the paper it’s written on, because I know you
cannot be trusted.” “The thesis he on political science is
not worth the paper it is written on, and I totally disagree
with the basic premises of his argument.”

It serves you right. 
That’s what you deserve; you’ve got what’s coming to
you; you’re getting your own back; now you have to pay
for the wrong you have done. “After the way in which
you treated your wife, I’m not surprised that she has left
you. It serves you right.” “Don’t expect anyone to pity
you for becoming the victim of your own excessive desires. It serves you right.” “After the way you neglected
your duty, it was to be expected that they would fire you,
It serves you right.”

It staggers belief 
Almost impossible to believe; stretches the mind; mindboggling; incomprehensible; beyond the capacity of
common understanding; overwhelming; unbelievable;
incredible; astonishing. “It staggers belief how many millions of children are under-nourished and starving all
around the world, and, yet, so little is being done to remedy the situation.” “It stagers belief that some politicians
in Washington would want to go to war just so that certain influential people would be able to make money by
causing a shortage of oil reserves.” It staggers belief that
a politician with enough money could buy the support of
the majority of members of parliament in order to control
the government to achieve his own ends.” “It staggers
belief how many millions of people have died worldwide as a result of genocide in the last sixty years.”

It takes all kinds to make a world.
The world is made up of many different types of people.
“It is OK to be different. It takes all kinds of people to
make a world.” *

It takes one to know one

It takes two to tango 
Just as it takes two to do the dance of the tango, so it
takes two to fight; if one will not fight the other has no
one to fight with.

It was a flop. 
It was a total failure; did not succeed; was not popular;
did not attain approval; fell on its face. “Last season’s
Broadway play, Nights and Days, was an unfortunate
flop and ran for only thirty-three performances before
they had to shut it down.” “They thought that the movie
about the agony of Christ would be a total flop at the box
office, but it made millions and millions, all around the
world, and is on its way to becoming a classic.” “Our
joint business venture was a flop because the people from
my staff could not get along with your staff and the result
was a financial disaster.”

It was a fluke. 
A stroke of luck that came by accident; something good 
that happened through coincidence. “Sometimes an invention is the result of a fluke in which a chemist is trying to achieve one result and a totally different one appears instead.” “I don’t know how I managed to guess
the correct answer. It was a fluke.” “I cannot take credit
for the conceiving the idea. It just popped into my head
out of no where. It was a fluke.”

It works for me.

It’s a breeze. 
It’s very easy; anybody could do it; nothing to it; it’s
really simple. ““Don’t worry. You’ll pass the written
part-of the driver’s test. It’s a breeze.” “Students often
and waste spend more time worrying than studying, only
to discover that if they have attended class regularly and
done the homework assignments consistently, they find
the exam to be a breeze.” “People usually worry about
getting through a job interview, but if you just relax and
be yourself and answer candidly, you’ll find it to be a
breeze.”

It’s a charade 
Don’t believe what you see; it’s only make-believe. It’s
only a show to fool people; a false impression; a farce;
play-acting. “They appear to be the ideal Hollywood
couple, but it’s only a charade: the truth is that she hates
men and he’s gay.” “My life from the outside may look
happy to you, but I can confide in you that what you see
is only a charade. Inside, I am extremely tormented and
lonely.” “The whole of life is just one big charade and
we are the players pretending to be something we are
not.”

It’s a cinch. 
Something easy to do; simple to accomplish; a sure
thing; promising to do a thing with no trouble; a done
deal; certain to happen. “We can finish your audit within
one week. No problem. It’s a cinch.” “I promise you that
I can get the task accomplished. For someone of my skill
level, it’s a cinch.” “The deal is cinched; it was a sure
thing from the beginning.”

It’s a crying shame.

It’s a drag! 
It is very boring to have to do and endure.

It’s a drawback.

It’s a mystery to me 
I cannot understand why it happened.

It’s a setup.

It’s a snap! 
It is so easy! It’s a breeze! Nothing could be easier; as
easy as pie.

It’s a tossup. 
No one knows whether it will go one way or the other;
like the flip of a coin; it could go any which way; there’s
a fifty-fifty chance it will go one way or the other way;
six of one and half a dozen of the other. “No one knows
which way the election will go. It’s a tossup.” “At the
moment, I can’t decide what to do. I may travel for a 
year or I may start college. It’s a tossup.” “We can’t decide which business option to pick. It’s a tossup between
long term gain and short term pain.”

It’s about time!

It’s all in your head. 
There’s no truth to the matter; you are just imagining it;
worrying about nothing; a twisted distortion of reality not
based-on fact; fearing fear itself; ungrounded suspicion.
“Don’t start worrying that your husband may be unfaithful. I have never been such a loyal husband. It’s all in
your head.” “You may think that the other girls in class
don’t like you, but it’s all in your head. Everyone adores
you.” “I know you are afraid of giving your marketing
presentation, but do not worry. Worry never solved anything. It’s all in your head.”

It’s all over now! 
That’s the end; there’s no more chance.

It’s beginning to jell. 
I’m starting to get the idea; to understand; see what you
mean; to get the picture.

It’s curtains! 
Just as the curtains go down; this is the end for me! …

It’s just as well. 
It’s probably a good thing it didn’t happen.

It’s no crime to 
It is not against the law to …

It’s no hassle.
It is no trouble at all.

It’s no picnic 
It is not easy; no fun;

It’s no use crying overspilt milk.
Just as it is too late to cry one spilt milk, so one might
say it is too late to

It’s not for me to judge 
I cannot be the one who makes the final conclusion.. “I
don’t know enough facts and information about the case,
so it’s not for me to judge who is right or wrong.” “It’s
not for me to judge what you do in your secret life in
your own private time. Only you can be the judge of
that.” “It’s not for me to judge whether the Americans
are the destroyers or the saviors of the world.”

It’s not the end of the world
Don’t be so disappointed; much worse things could happen; it’s not as disastrous as you think. “You’ll get over
the loss of your home in the hurricane; it’s not the end of
the world; you can start over again.” “Being disappointed
in your first love is not the end of the world, even though
it seems to be at the time it is happening.”

It’s not worth it. 
Forget it; it’ll cost you more than its worth; not worth the
bother; you may lose more than you get; it’s too risky.
“Don’t pay any attention to his silly remarks, and don’t
try to contradict his stupid statements. It’s just not worth
it.” “If you complain, you’ll be punished, so just keep
your mouth shut. It’s not worth it.” “Don’t quit you job
and risk your future just on a theoretical, moral principle.
It’s not worth it.”

It’s now or never 
Act now for later will be too late.

It’s six of one and half a dozen of the other
There is no difference; they are the same thing; one is the
same as the other. 

It’s the dregs! 
The worst; residue at the bottom of the bottle;

It’s the pits. 
The worst; the lowest possible;

It’s time to take stock of the situation.
The time has come to size up and assess to situation.

It’s your call. 
You decide; tell us what you think; give us your opinion;
you make the decision; tell us what you think we should
do; you take the responsibility; you give the order. “You
have final authority. It’s your call. Tell us what to do
now.” “We’ve discussed everyone else’s opinion, now
it’s your call. How do you see the problem?” “The vote
is tied. It’s the chairman’s call. He should decide whether
to file for bankruptcy or whether to try to restructure the
company.”

It’s your funeral! 
You will be the cause of your own undoing.

Itch for 
Have a yearning for; have an unsatisfied desire for something.

Itching for trouble

Itchy feet 
The need to move to other regions.

Itchy palm 
A hand that is greedy for money, especially corruption
money.

Jab in the ribs 
A poke in the ribs to remind one to be on one’s best behavior.

Jack of all trades, master of none
Having worked in every kind of job but not being epert on any one.

Jammed down one’s throat

Jam-packed 
Crowded to the bursting point; packed-in-like sardines.

Jam-session 
When musicians get together to play and improvise on
whatever comes into their heads.

Jaundiced-attitude 
Pessimistic way of seeing; cynical view on life; skeptical; unenthusiastic; jaded. “She has faced so many letdowns and tragic events in her life, that it’s not surprising
that she has developed a jaundiced-attitude.” “Don’t always show such a jaundiced-attitude or you will have a
negative influence on those around you.” “They say that
those who become deeply involved in philosophy develop a jaundiced-attitude and become overly-cynical
because metaphysical speculation is always based on
casting doubt on the views of those who came before.”

Jaws of death 
Just as one might be in the jaws of a crocodile, one can
also say one is in the jaws of death. 

Jealousy will get you nowhere.
There is no benefit in being jealous.

Jeering crowd 
A large gathering of angry people who are booing and
hissing and shouting disapproval. “After the home team
lost the match on their own turf due to a golden goal,
large numbers of spectators rushed down onto the field
and formed into a dissatisfied and jeering crowd.”
Jiggle-about Wiggle; waggle; shake; rattle around. “Cant you keep
still …”

Jilted-bride 
A bride who was left standing at the altar.

Jittery nerves 
Jumpy, shaky nerves.

Jockey for position 
Just as in a horse race, competitors have to jockey for
position to see who can be first and who can get ahead of
whom.

Jog the mind …. ; 
Prod someone’s memory

Johnny-on-the-spot 
Someone who responds and comes quickly when needed;
who is able to in the right place at the right time. …

Join the club. 
Are all in the same boat; Welcome to the group; you’re not the only one;

Joking aside 
Now, I am not joking; in all seriousness;

Joyous occasion 
Happy event;

Judge a book by its cover 
Decide based only on outward appearance.

Judge of character 
Someone who has the experience to size people up and
estimate their characters.

Judgment day 
The day you die; your day of reckoning; the day it is decided whether you go to heaven or hell. “On judgment
day, God will punish you for all your sins and send you
to hell where you deserve to be.”

Juggle-the-books 
Just as one juggle balls in a circus, one may be said to
juggle the numbers in the accounting books

Juggling act 
Just as a juggler must keep a number of balls moving in
the air, so we say we are trying to do a juggling act when
we…

Juicy story 
A sexy story about someone else’s love affair.

Jumbled-up 
Cluttered; disorderly; messy.

Jump all over me

Jump at the chance
...at the opportunity

Jump down someone’s throat
React in an overly aggressive way; reply …

Jump in at the deep end 
Just as it’s not he best way to learn swimming by jumping in at the deep end of the pool, sometimes we say …

Jump on the bandwagon 
Jump into the crowd and join the enthusiasm.

Jump ship 
To quit the team effort (in the same way a sailor might
leave his ship and crewmates before the voyage is completed.); to leave a job and change to another company;
to desert the cause or project and leave the others to finish it on their own. “Ralph joined our audit team in December, but he jumped ship after only five months, be-
cause the hard work and long hours got to be too much
for him.” “After three years with Shell, he jumped ship
and went to work for BP.” “Oliver financed and planned
our research project, but after about seven months he
jumped ship and went to live in London with his fiancée.

Jump the gun 
Just as a runner can start to run before the starting gun
goes off, so we may say that we jump the gun if we start
something too early or prematurely. “Don’t jump the gun
and start going crazy until you have heard me out.. Just
sit down and listen for a minute , and I’ll tell you why
things went wrong.”

Jump to conclusions ….. ; 
….jump to false conclusions

Jump-start 
Just as we can jump-start a car using cables from an auxiliary battery, so we may say we are …

Jury is out 
Just a s defendant must wait until the jury decides and
makes a verdict, so we can say that the jury is out when
we are waiting for a decision to come from someone,
somewhere or some authority.

Just as 
I expected As I thought would happen.

Just as well
Just between you and me If I may tell you a secret that should remain between the
two of us, …

Just business … 
“Don’t take it personally. It’s just business.”

Just complaining won’t get you anywhere.
Merely complaining can do more harm than good and
certainly won’t solve the problem. “Just complaining
won’t get you anywhere, if you don’t make an effort to
make things better.”

Just desert 
Getting what you deserve for what you have done; justice ...

Just for a lark 
Do something cheeky or naughty just for a laugh; just for
the fun of it; just for the hell of it. “… Pull some trick

Just for the record

Just in the nick of time 
At the very last moment possible. “You’ve arrived just in
the nick of time. One second later and it would have been
too late.”

Just in time 
JIT A business expression that means not keeping a warehouse full of stock but ordering the merchandize from an
outside supplier just in time to meet a delivery date.

Just kidding 
Only joking; don’t take it seriously; only pulling your leg

Just punishment 
The punishment one deserves under the balance of the
law.

Just reward 
What you deserve; just the payback that you merit.

Just say the word 
Whenever you are ready, just tell me. I’ll be reary for
action.

Just so 
Not so good and not so bad.

Just the thing! 
Exactly what is required;

Just what the doctor or- 
This idiom has nothing directly to do with what an actual 
dered! doctor might order a patient to take or do, but means,
figuratively, exactly what a person needs at the moment;
just what is required; something to solve or cure the
problem. “This new photo software package is just what
the doctor ordered. It’s exactly what I need to resize and
retouch my pictures.” “I don’t know how you guessed,
but your gift is just what the doctor ordered. I have been
meaning to buy myself a new electric eyelash curler for
weeks.” “This satellite disk is exactly what the doctor
ordered because, where I live up country, it is impossible
to get normal TV reception.”

Just you wait! 
I’ll get even with you sooner or later!

Justifiable argument

Juvenile delinquent 
Someone under age who breaks the law or gets into trouble.

Kangaroo court 
A group of self-appointed court members set up hastily
to judge and punish.

Keel over 
Just as a sailboat may roll over in a storm and the float
with its keel up, so a person may be said to faint and keel
over because of surprise or shock…. Fall and faint

Keen observer

Keep a civil tongue in your head
Speak politely with good manners the way society expects you to; don’t swear and use bad words and insulting language.

Keep a secret 
Don’t tell anybody;

Keep a straight face 
Try not to break out into laughter in an inappropriate
place or situation; keep control of your facial features so
no one will see you are amused; don’t laugh in anyone’s
face to show you think they look silly or ridiculous.

Keep abreast of 
Stay up-to-date; keep well-informed; continue to follow
new developments, news, facts and research; learn about
any changes in the area of interest. “We depend on using
the latest technology, so we have to keep abreast of any
new developments in our area of research.” Medical doctors have to keep abreast of any new medicines and treatments, so they will be able to give the best advice to their
patients.” “I’m not sure of the outcome but we are following the development of the situation and trying to
keep abreast of the situation.” “When I hear anything
new, I’ll keep you abreast of the state of affairs.”

Keep an eye on someone 
Watch someone to see what he does.

Keep an eye out for 
Be on the lookout for; see if you can find; if you notice 
…

Keep astride of 
Keep up-to-date; keep abreast of;

Keep in check 
Restrain;

Keep in step with the times

Keep up-to-date;

Keep in touch. 
Remain in contact.

Keep it brief. 
… short and to the point

Keep it to yourself. 
Don’t tell this to anyone.

Keep it under your hat. 
Keep it a secret.

Keep me posted. 
Keep me up to date; let me know what is going on.

Keep mum. 
Keep it quiet. Don’t say anything to anybody. "he was keeping mum about a possible move to Canada"

Keep on plugging. 
Don’t stop trying your best.

Keep one’s cards close to one’s chest
Just as card player keeps his cards close to his chest so
no one can see what cards he is holding, so

Keep out of my way 
Don’t try to hinder me or get in my way if you know
what is good for you.

Keep out of sight 
Do not let yourself be seen; lie low

Keep pace with 
Keep up with; keep abreast of.

Keep plodding on. 
Keep going despite the drudgery;

Keep quiet! 
Stop talking and don’t say anything more.

Keep someone at a distance
Be careful with him; don’t trust him too much; don’t let
him get close enough to you to do you any harm; don’t
get too intimate with him; you never know what he might
do. “Keep that fellow at a distance; don’t let him get
close enough to you to hurt you.” Don’t let that fellow
get to close to you; he might abuse your trust.” “That
chap is manipulative. He uses people to achieve his own
ends. Keep him at a distance”

Keep someone at-armslength
Keep your distance from a person because of the possible
harm or negative effect he could cause;

Keep tabs on someone 
Watch and observe what someone says and does;

Keep the faith 
Don’t give up confidence in the struggle; keep on fighting for what you believe in.

Keep track of 
Follow the progress and development of;

Keep up the good work. 
Continue doing the same kind of good work;

Keep up with the times 
Stay up-to-date.

Keep your balance 
Maintain equilibrium; keep an even keel; keep cool;
don’t go overboard.

Keep your chin up. 
Don’t let your chin hang down in discouragement; keep
your chin and your pecker up.

Keep your end of the bargain
Be true to your promise; keep your word;

Keep your eyes peeled for
Keep an eye out for; watch for; be on the lookout for; see
if you can find; keep searching for.

Keep your fingers crossed
Cross your middle and index fingers as a sign that you
hope that this superstition will bring you luck; that everything will turn out as you hoped; hope the worst doesn’t happen

Keep your hands off me! 
Don’t touch me; especially in an intimate, friendly manner; don’t lay a hand on me with sexual intentions; don’t
lay a finger on me, because I detest the very idea of you
touching me. “Keep your hands off me, you dirty old
man! I’m as pure as the driven snow, and I intend to stay
that way.” “Keep your hands off me. I’m not gay and you
make me feel uncomfortable when you touch me that
way.”

Keep your hands to yourself!
Don’t touch me in a way that I do not want to be
touched, particularly sexually.

Keep your mouth shut. 
Keep it secret; don’t tell anybody about a certain fact;
don’t tell anybody what you know; don’t rat on me; keep
the topic to yourself; don’t talk about it; don’t be a stoolpigeon; don’t be a squealer.

Keep your nose clean.
Don’t cause any more trouble; don’t do anything else to
draw negative attention and get yourself into difficulties;
behave better than you have in the past so no one notices
you. “As your guidance counselor, I would advise you to
try not to repeat any of the mistakes of the past and to
keep your nose clean, so that you don’t get into any more
trouble from now on.”

Keep your options open

Keep your paws off me. 
Don’t put your hands on me. Don’t touch me sexually;
keep your paws off of me!” *

Keep your pecker up. 
Don’t hang your head down in despair; look cheerful;
hold your chin and nose up in the air and don’t let the
world know that you care “Don’t allow yourself become
depressed. Hold your head high and keep your pecker
up.” “Always keep your pecker up, and never let people
see when you are discouraged.”

Keep your slate clean 
Don’t let anything bad get on your record.

Keep your sox on 
Don’t be in such a hurry to act; slow down; take some
time to think before you jump in and react in an emotional state and do something you’ll regret later. A man’s
got to do what he’s got to do, but he should stop and
ponder what the result will be. The right moment will
come so restrain your self now. “Keep you sox on.
There’s no reason to get angry and fall into a rage until
you find out what has actually happened.” There’s time
to wait and see before you have to jump into the struggle.
Keep your sox on until you know the facts.”

Keep your temper 
Don’t become angry and lose control of yourself; remain
controlled with out getting upset.

Keeping abreast 
Staying up-to-date; having the very latest information..

Keeping your head above water
Just barely making a profit but earning enough to live on.

Keeping-up appearances 
Attempting to make an impression that things are con-
tinuing to go well for you when actually the opposite is
true.

Kept under wraps 
Just as a package is wrapped in paper, so a secret can be
kept under cover; kept confidential, ready to be revealed
when the right time comes.

Key to success 
Secret of becoming successful; the main thing….formula
Keyed-up Excited; eager with anticipation; emotional; worked-up.

Kick an idea around

Kick in the face 
An unjustifiable action meant to harm you; a hurtful
criticism directed against you even though you feel you
don’t deserve it; an unexpected blow to your pride. “After what you said to my sister, I’m warning you to keep
out of our neighborhood, or I’ll literally kick you in the
face.” “Hollywood actress, Tina Mina, took it a real kick
in the face when the film critics wrote that her performance in The Great Goddess lacked vivacity and life.” “I
thought it was a real kick in the face that I was passed
over for promotion to partner after so many years of
faithful service to the firm.” “When Vera heard that
Serge had said that she was not exactly the girl of his
dreams, she took it as a real kick in the teeth.”

Kick in the pants 
Literally, a kick in the ass; a kick in the backside; the
bottom (seat of the trousers) as a punishment for having
done something bad/stupid; figuratively, an action performed to punish you for a willfully wrong action; a public chastisement or penalty imposed to teach you a lesson. “Father said he would, literally, give me a kick in
the seat of the pants if he ever caught me climbing telephone poles again.” “The foreman said he would give me
a kick in the pants the next time he caught me dreaming
on the job.” “I thought it was a real kick in the pants the
way the chief engineer pointed the finger of blame at me
for the breakdown of the assembly line.”

Kick in the shins 
A kick under the table to let you know you are doing or
saying something wrong.

Kick in the teeth 
Being attacked instead of supported; getting undeserved…;

Kick start 
Just as we kick start a motorcycle to turn over the engine
or kick start a dead battery by using jumper cables, so

Kick the bucket 
Die; "Take care. I don’t want you to kick the bucket."

Kick the habit 
Give up an addiction; stop doing a harmful, practice; quit
smoking, drinking, taking drugs, lying, biting-yourfingernails, etc.; renounce a customary, bad habit/action.
“I used to smoke three packs of cigarettes a day, but now
I’ve kicked the habit.” “Father drank an awful lot when
he was young, but after he got married, he kicked the
habit.” “My younger sister was a drug-user in high
school, but after some social counseling, she managed to 
kick the habit.” “Mark Twain used to swear and curse
around the house, and his wife tried unsuccessfully to get
him to kick the habit.”

Kick up your heels!

Kickback 
Illegal commission or percentage; bribe; under the table;
illegal money.

Kicked upstairs

Kicking around an idea 
Considering; contemplating;

Kickoff 
Just as a football game begins wit a kickoff, so we may
say a project or business venture starts up with a kickoff
to launch the project to get attention.

Kick-up a stink 
Kick up a rumpus; kick up a fuss

Kid gloves 
Handle someone carefully and gently so as not to hurt his
feelings or upset him in any way; handle as though with
kid leather (lamb skin) gloves

Kill two birds with one stone
Solve two problems with one action

Killing time 
Keeping yourself busy doing something to keep from
being bored while you have to wait

Killjoy 
Wet blanket; party pooper; someone who wants to spoil
the fun for others.

Kindred spirit 
Someone who feels exactly the same way you do.

Kinky behavior 
Acting in a sexually-weird or abnormal manner.

Kiss off! 
Get out of here! “Kiss off is probably just a polite way of
saying ‘Piss off,’ which means, “Go away.”

Kiss your money goodbye!
You’ll never get your money back

Kith and kin 
Family and relatives; nearest and dearest.

Knick nacks 
Small ornaments and souvenirs on display on a table or shelf.

Knife in the back

Knight in shining armor 
A man who comes to the rescue of a woman in distress

Knit-picker 
Someone too attentive to small details

Knock around together 
Run around together as friends, pals, hang-out together;
have a good time together, sometimes even getting into
trouble. “When we were just children, Jo and I used to
knock around together, climbing fences and playing cops
and robbers, but, after he went off to study at Harvard, I
didn’t see much of him anymore.” “Colin and I used to
knock around together when we were teenagers. Now, he
is in jail and I am a policeman.” “After I graduated from
college, I started to knock around together with a fast,
loose crowd, and lost my sense of self-control for a
while.”

Knock it off! 
Stop your complaining; stop what you are doing; that’s
enough now; quit it,

Knock on the noggin 
A bang or hit on the head that stuns you and makes you a
bit stunned and stupid. 

Knock on wood 
A gesture showing that you hope for luck;

Knock the stuffing out of 
Just as one might knock the stuffing out of a doll, so one
might warn another that one intends to knock the stuffing
out of him.

Knock your sox off 
Cause an extremely strong reaction; have a powerful,
amazing effect; so that its power could literally reach to
your extremities and blow your sox off; electrifying; very
surprising; knock you for a loop. “If you take a drink of
Grandpa’s home- brewed whiskey, it’ll knock your sox
off.” The advanced technology of the new electronic system is so amazing that it will knock your socks off.”
“The unexpected, sad and tragic news was so astonishing
that it almost knocked my socks off.”

Knocked-out cold 
Just as a boxer …

Knocked-up 
Pregnant before marriage; pregnant from having sex with
a boyfriend or casual sexual partner; expecting an unexpected child out of wedlock. “Charlie knocked-up Sheila
when they were both just eighteen, so he had to marry
her, but their families took care of the child while the
Charlie and Shelia attended college.” “Cherry has gone
and got herself knocked-up, and she doesn’t even know
who the father might be.” “I got knocked-up when I was
just sixteen and had to leave school and then I fell in with
the wrong crowd and started taking drugs, and, now, I’m
a junkie.

Knocking your head against the wall
Keep persisting even when you know you cannot succeed.

Know a thing or two 
The opposite of being stupid is to know a thing or two.

Know it all 
Someone who always thinks he’s right and knows all the
answers.

Know it backwards 
Know something inside-out and completely; from backto-front.

Know nothing 
Somebody who thinks he knows everything when actually he knows nothing at all.

Know the ropes 
Know one’s way around from experience;

Know when to quit 
Be aware of when it is time to stop.

Know where you stand 
Be aware of your situation;

Know which end is up

Know which side your bread is buttered on
Be aware of who you depend on financially.

Know your place 
Remain aware of your (low) social station and do not
speak or act as if you were more important than that; perform your function on the social level in which you find
yourself and keep in the background. “As a maid servant
in the Duke’s household, I was taught to know my place
and not speak unless spoken to.” “Children should know
their place in the family hierarchy and not step or act or
speak out of line.” “A man who knows his place will not 
pretend to be more than he is.”

Know your stuff 
Be competent in your field.

Know your way around 
Well-experienced in the area, not only in the neighborhood but in life.

Know-nothing 
An ignorant person. One who doesn’t know anything but
pretends to know everything is called a know-nothing.”*

Knuckle-down 
Apply yourself; get down-to-work to get the job finished.

Knuckle-under 
Give-in and succumb to the will of another; do what you
are told; obey without question; follow orders;

Kowtow to someone 
Bow down in obeisance according to custom. “Just as, in
past history, the people had to go down on all fours on
the ground and prostrate themselves before an emperor
or ruler, we sometimes say, now, that we refuse to kowtow to the wishes of someone or somebody who wants to
feel that he is above us.” “I’ll kowtow to no man in this
world because I believe strongly that all people should be
treated as equal.” “The first representative of the English
crown to appear before the emperor of China was asked
to kowtow to as a sign of respect, which caused him to
feel disturbing conflict of cultural of values.”

Labor of love 
Something that you do because you love doing it.
“Writing this dictionary of idioms is a labor of love; I do
it because I enjoy working with language.”

Labor under the illusion that
Be under the false impression that;

Laborious task 
A lot of hard work and effort;

Labor-the-point 
Keep talking on-and-on about the same matter or point

Lack of funds

Lack of understanding

Ladder of success

Lady luck 
Chance; fortune; fate, “We’ll have to leave We’ll have to
leave it up to lady luck whether we fail or not.”

Lady’s man 
A man who likes the ladies and they like him.

Lady-killer 
A handsome, charming man whom all the women adore
and will do anything for no matter how badly he treats
them.” “When I was in my thirties, I was a real ladykiller. I wanted to try them all and let the pieces fall
where they may.” “Be a little cautious when you meet
Lilly’s brother. He’s a real lady-killer and will have you
eating out of his hand before you know it.” “They say 
that Lord Byron was a real lady-killer who had sexual
relations with more than a hundred women, both of the
upper and lower classes, during the course of one visit to
Venice.”

Lag behind 
Drop back; trail behind; fall back; hang back; linger;

Laid back 
Relaxed; easy-going; calm; cool.

Laid to rest (figurative) 
Just as a human body may be dead and buried in the
ground, so an argument or disagreement may be finally
settled and laid to rest.

Laid-off 
Made redundant;

Lame excuse 
A poor or weak excuse that no one will believe.

Lame-duck 
Just as a duck, with an injured foot, cannot walk very
well, so a politician with only a short time left in office (a
lame duck) cannot function very well. “At the end of his
term, President Clinton was unable to push through some
items of legislation because people knew he was a lame
duck and were waiting to see who would be running the
new government.” “Even when a politician knows that he
has become a lame-duck, and that his powers are diminishing, day by day, he should still try his utmost to serve
the people.” “There’s little sense in planning new projects when you are a lame duck politician, because the
next government will probably cancel them anyway.”

Land on your feet

Lap it up 
Just a cat laps up milk from a dish with its tongue,

Lap of luxury 
Living in a condition or position of luxury. “I always
wanted to live in the lap of luxury, but even though I
have everything I want, I do not have what I really need.”

Lapse of memory 
Slip of the mind;

Larger than life

Lash-into someone 
Attack verbally with criticism;

Lash-out-at someone 
Attack with harsh words;

Last breath 
The moment of death.

Last chance 
Final opportunity

Last ditch attempt 
One last desperate try before giving up; digging in and
trying to hold your ground (as in a foxhole or trench in
battle) before having to retreat. “Although my chances
look bad, I’m make one more concentrated, last ditch attempt to save the company from bankruptcy.”.” “I’m going to make one last ditch attempt to pass the CPA exams, and if I fail, I’ll have to be satisfied with a normal
accounting job.”

Last for a lifetime

Last laugh 
“You think you’re funny do you? Well, let’s just wait
and see who gets the last laugh.” “He who laughs last
laughs best.” “He…last laugh is on me.”

Last of the lot 
The final item in the list;

Last remnant 
Final vestige 

Last resort 
Last chance; only hope; final attempt;

Last resting place 
Burial ground.

Last straw 
Literally, the final straw that made the load so heavy that
it broke the camel’s back; figuratively, the final … that
causes you to lose your …

Last words 
The final words spoken before death.

Lasting impression 
Lasting effect

Last-minute decision 
A quick unexpected decision prior to the act.

Latch onto 
Get your hands on; grab; get in your grasp.

Latchkey child 
A kid with a key around his neck to open the door when
he goes home because his mother is out working.

Late bloomer 
Just as some flowers bloom later than others, so some
young people take longer than others to develop.

Late-comer 
A person who has recently arrived on the scene.

Laudable effort 
Praiseworthy attempt; admirable action; commendable
endeavor.

Laugh it off 
Just try to laugh and forget about it.

Laugh yourself silly 
Think something is so funny that you laugh until you are
weak in the brain.

Laughing in the aisles 
Rolling with laughter; hysterical with laughter; in hysterics

Laughing stock 
A person who is a subject of ridicule at whom everyone
is laughing.

Laughing up your sleeve

Lax attitude 
Not strict; relaxed about following regulations.

Lay down and die 
Quit; give-up; stop struggling;

Lay down the law

Lay into 
Start scolding and telling someone off.

Lay it on the line 
Tell someone exactly what you think………in no uncertain terms

Lay it on thick 
Praise someone so highly that listeners know it is overexaggerated.

Lay low for a while 
Keep out of sight;

Lay off workers 
Give notice to workers that you have to terminate them
due to financial factors.

Lay your cards on the table.
Tell everything exactly the way it is; speak openly; tell
all you know; tell the truth; be candid; explain your situation without hiding anything;

Lay your life on the line. 
Risk you life for a cause or in the line of duty.

Lay-off 
Stop doing that; stop picking on that; go easy on me.
“Stop harping at he. Lay off! Can’t you see I’ve got the
point? *

Lazy bones 
Someone who is too lazy to get up and move his bones to
do something.

Lead around by the nose

Lead someone astray 
Lead them down a false path; lying to get you to believe the wrong thing.

Lead someone on 
Keep telling someone a lie; stringing them a line to deceive him and make him have false hopes and continue
believing;

Lead someone up the wrong path
… ; … garden path

Lead the way 
Go first so the others can follow.

Lead time 
A period of time in advance in which to become prepared
for the deadline or end of the project

Lead to disaster 
Doing something that will have a catastrophic effect.

Leading question 
A question that put the answerer in a difficult position if
he tries to answer; a question that seem to be putting
words in your mouth.

Leading up to 
Beating around the bush and hesitating before you finally
come to the main point

Leak to the press ...
Leak information

Lean on him a little bit 
Put the pressure on someone to do something; use influence to threaten someone to do something; bully or push
or compel someone to do it your way; put him under
stress; force him into action. “My little brother, Pip,
wanted to tell our Mom that we were the ones who stole
her grocery money, but after I had bullied and leaned on
him a bit, he was afraid to speak up and he kept his
mouth shut.” “Card Shark Charlie was not paying-off his
debts, so the mob had some local thugs lean on him a bit,
and he coughed up the money immediately.” “The CFO
is hesitant to record the accounts the way we have suggested, but if we lean on him a bit and threaten to hurt his
children, I’m sure he’ll go along with the plan.”

Lean over backwards 
Do everything possible to oblige somebody; try your utmost to fulfill someone’s wishes; do all you can to please
someone. “Darling, when we are married, I will lean over
backwards do everything within my power to try to fulfill
your every wish.” “Our team of engineers is leaning over
backwards and making every effort and compromise so
that we can meet your demands.” “Top management, in
five star hotels, tries to impress on all staff members that
they should lean over backwards to try to fulfill a guest’s
every desire.”

Lean times 
Hard times when little money or food is available…skimp

Leap into the abyss 
Take a blind chance; leap into the dark emptiness of nothingness.

Leaps and bounds 
Going ahead very quickly; in great strides; at a fast rate.
“The project is going great guns, by leaps and bounds, jumping from one stage to another.

Learn a lesson from

Learn by rote 
Memorize word-for-word; commit to memory 

Learn the ropes 
Just as a young sailor has to learn the ropes, so a young
person in a new job may be said to have to learn the
ropes.

Learned my lesson

Leave a bad taste

Leave for good 
Depart forever and never come back.

Leave in a lurch 
Depart suddenly; abandon;

Leave it to chance 
Let luck decide;

Leave me alone 
Don’t bother me; don’t pester me; don’t bug me; don’t
pick on me; just let me stay by myself. “

Leave no stone unturned 
Look and search very closely, absolutely everywhere.

Leave things hanging

Leave things up in the air

Leaves a lot to be desired 
Far from perfect

Leech off someone

Left holding the bag

Left in the lurch 
Deserted by someone and left to fend for yourself

Left on your own

Left out in the cold 
Excluded;

Left to your own devices 
Left alone with no one to help you so you have to help
yourself.

Left-handed compliment 
Indirect …;

Leg pull 
Telling someone something untrue to get a reaction and
then admitting that you are just pulling a joke on them;
… “Don’t get upset when your sister says you are the
ugliest member in the family; she’s just pulling your
leg.” “…

Legend in his own time

Legitimate excuse 
Valid justification for absence or non-performance; good
reason or explanation for what went wrong.

Leisure time
Free time; … “What do you do in your leisure time to
relax and enjoy yourself?”

Lend a hand 
Help someone do something

Lengthy stay 
Stay for a long time in a particular place. “Every year, in
December, she goes to Monaco, on the French Riviera,
and enjoys a lengthy stay in the comfortable Mediterranean climate until the beginning of April.” *
Lenient punishment Let off easy. “The judge said that because Timmy was
underage and a first offender, the court would ley him off
easy this time.”

Lesser-of-two-evils 
The better of two bad choices.

Let bygones be bygones 
Forgive and forget what happened in the past; don’t hang
on to resentment from former times; let go of bad memories; don’t dwell on old injuries; “Forgive your mother
for abandoning you when you were just a child. Let bygones be bygones.” “There’s no sense in holding onto
old grudges. Let bygones be bygones.” “Please pardon 
me for the mistakes of my youth, and let’s let bygones be
bygones.” “Old enemies should overlook the happenings
of the past and become friends for the future.”

Let down your guard

Let down your hair 
Just as a woman can let down her hair and loosen up
once she is at home and relaxed, so

Let it be. 
Accept things as they are; forget it; let it ride.

Let it go. 
Don’t hang on to anything that worries you.

Let it rest. 
Dead and buried in a cemetery;

Let it ride. 
Don’t get upset; just let pass and let it go.

Let it slide 
Let it go and forget about it; let it slide into the past and
don’t worry about it.

Let it slip 
Reveal a secret unintentionally.

Let loose against someone
Release all one’s emotion and anger directed towards …

Let me in on it. 
Share the secret or the news with me; I want to know too;

Let me look into it.
Let me check; let me look to see and confirm.

Let me ponder on that a while.
Allow me some time to think and consider the matter.

Let me see … 
Allow me to think a moment.

Let nature take its course. 
Wait and see what happens in the course of events.

Let off steam 
Release pent-up pressure and emotion by …

Let off the hook 
Just as a fish can be let off the hook, so a person in trouble may be said to be let off the hook if he somehow escapes punishment.

Let out on a long leash 
Just as a dog may be let out on.

Let sleeping dogs lie. 
Don’t stir up old forgotten troubles.

Let someone in on a secret
Share a secret with someone who does not yet know it.

Let the cat out of the bag 
Reveal a secret

Let the dust settle. 
Wait until the crisis passes and things settle down.

Let your hair down. 
Relax and behave naturally

Let yourself go 
Relax so you are fee of all your tensions; ease up and follow your feelings.

Let’s all chip-in 
Let’s all throw in some money to share expenses towards
a good cause.

Let’s all pitch-in and help 
Let’s all join-in and lend a hand

Let’s blow this joint 
Let’s get out of here; away from this place; let’s split.

Let’s do it! 
Let’s not hesitate; let’s decide and do it now!

Let’s drop it. 
OK? Change the subject and talk about something else.

Let’s face it! 
We must accept the facts the way they are.

Let’s get something straight
Make it clear; be sure you understand;

Let’s just forget it 
Don’t dwell on it; it’s not important; let’s drop it.

Let’s leave it at that.

Let’s let bygones be bygones
Forgive and forget what has happened in the past. 

Let’s level with one another.
Talk true and tell all; be honest and …

Let’s put some teeth into it.
Let’s impose a penalty to make the punishment harsher.
“Student’s were not following the rule regarding consumption of alcohol in the dorms, so the university put
some teeth into the restriction, and anyone caught with
alcohol in his room had to vacate the building immediately.” “Some staff members were not attending mandatory English classes, so the company resolved to put
some teeth into it and deduct 2,000 Baht from each participant who did not turn up for at least 80% of the
classes.” “In the past, clients who defaulted on loan repayments had to pay 0.1% interest per annum on outstanding amounts. Why not put some teeth into it and
raise the rate to 20%?”

Let’s swap 
Let’s trade; you give me yours and I give you mine.

Let’s wing it! 
Let’s talk our way out of it by saying what ever comes to mind.

Lethargic person 
Lacking energy; lazy-minded; indolent; unenthusiastic;
languid. “…

Level best 
Doing the best you can; just, fair and level, right and
true. “Don’t shout at me like that! Can’t you see I’m trying my level best to do the job properly?” “Thanks for
voting me into office. I’ll try as hard as I can to do my
level best to fulfill my required duties.”

Level the playing field 
Give the opposing sides a fair chance and equal opportunity; remove any obstacles that would give one side an
unfair advantage in competition (as on a sports playing
field). “In union and management negotiations, there
should be a level playing field, so that union members
have an equal chance to debate Issues against management.” “Let’s allow a level playing field, which will allow every citizen, rich or poor, to have an equal opportunity to a fair and impartial trial in court.” “The playing
field must always be exactly on the level to avoid, one
side being at the disadvantage of fighting an uphill battle.”

Level with me. 
Tell me the truth; confess to me; tell me what really happened. “ He had to level with someone about his guilt so
he leveled with me

Level-headed 
Calm and even-balanced.

Lick your lips

Lick your wounds

Lie awake nights 
Have trouble going to sleep because you are lying awake
thinking about things.

Lie down and die

Lie in wait

Life or death situation 

Life’s like that. 
That is just the way life is; one has to accept it.

Life-of-the-party 
Live-wire; …

Light at the end of the tunnel
Hope in the midst of despair that things will turn out in
the end

Light years away 
Just as a distant star or planet may be light years away, so
we may say …

Lighten the burden 
To make the task easier.

Lighten-up 
Take it easy; relax; cool down; don’t be so serious

Light-fingered 
Means someone who steals.

Like a bolt out of the blue
Just like unexpected lightening flashing out of the blue sky.

Like a fish out of water 
Like a person out of his element or natural condition.

Like a house on fire 
Very-well; extremely-well very rapidly; quickly; progressing intensely. “Our two adopted children have got
on like a house on fire, since the moment they met.”
“Our love relationship is developing like a house on fire
and getting stronger and stronger by the moment.” “My
business started off slowly but then grew like a house on
fire, so that now, it’s expanding so fast, it’s getting to be
more than I can handle.”

Like a shot 
Immediately; very quickly; unexpectedly fast. “When I
told him I would deduct his pay if he did not come immediately, he was here like a shot. “ …like a shot out of
hell

Like a ton of bricks 
As when something unexpectedly comes down on you and hits you with enormous force;

Like attracts like 
People with the same interests are attracted to one another and become friends.

Like it or lump it 
Be satisfied with what you’ve got because that’s all
you’re going to get; if you don’t like it, that’s your own
tough luck; if you are unhappy with what your life offers,
then you’ll still have to grin and bear it – like it or lump
it. “That’s the best offer you’ll get. Like it or lump it.”
That’s all the money I ‘m going to lend you. Like it or
lump it.” “You’ve got to play the cards you’ve been
dealt. Like it or lump it.”

Like it or not 
Whether you like it or you do not like it;

Like nobody’s business 
Very fast

Like oil and water 
Do not mix

Like the back of my hand 
As well as I could know anything

Like water off a duck’s back
Impervious; to water; flows off the surface without sinking into the feathers. …

Likely story! 
That is a hard story to believe! It sounds like you are lying.

Like-minded 
People who think and feel the same way.

Lily-livered 
Cowardly; faint-hearted; timid; gutless.

Lily-white 
Pure white and innocent.

Line of least resistance 

Line up against

Line your pockets 
Take money illegally to enrich yourself;

Linger a while 
Stay and remain, hesitate and hang around for a while.

Link-up Connect with

Lion’s den 
Just as one would be afraid to go into the lion’s cave or
den, so we sometimes sat we are afraid to go into the office or room of someone we are afraid of.

Lion’s share 
Just as the male lion gets most of the share of the prey, so

Little likelihood 
That is very unlikely; almost impossible; littl

Little wonder! 
It’s not surprising!

Live and kicking 
Just as a baby…

Live and learn.

Live and let live 
Live the way you like and allow others to live the way
they want; learn to accept that not everybody wants the
same things as you do; be tolerant of others.

Live by one’s wits

Live high on the hog 
Just as the best cuts of pork meat come from the upper
body- parts of the pig, someone who lives high on the
hog receives only the best and most expensive. “Simpson
was living very high on the hog and not paying attention
to his expenses, and before he knew it, most of his
money was gone.” “Living too high on the hog causes
gout, cirrhosis of the liver and coronary heart disease.”
“The best way to learn that living high on the hog is
rather too excessive is to try it for a while.”

Live in an ivory tower

Live it up 
Have a good time; really enjoy your life; have a ball;

Live wire 
Someone who is vibrant and full of energy and the center
of activity. “He’s a real live wire, the life of the party.”

Livid with anger 
Purple-in-the-face with anger

Living a lie 
Pretending to be and do something that is not true.

Living legend 
A myth or legend in his own time period.

Living on a shoestring 
Existing on almost nothing; with very little money.

Living on borrowed time 
About to die soon; having lived-out his life expectancy.
“As I write this line, I am already living on borrowed
time.”

Loads and loads of money
Means that a person is very rich; has a lot of money; as
though he were weighed down with cash, coins or precious metals, like a load of gold; he’s rich and he doesn’t
mind showing it or spending it; maybe there is a way can
to get some of his money.

Loafing-around 
Lying around, taking it easy; being lazy; idling the time away.

Lock horns with 
Just as two bull may lock horns in a fight, so

Lock the door and throw away the key
Put someone in jail forever.

Lodge a complaint 
Express a grievance 

Loitering around 
Hanging around doing nothing.

Long arm of the law 
The combined forces of all the police networks.

Long memory 
This means figuratively that a person remembers a
grudge for a long time and does not forgive and forget.
“It is a well-known fact that an elephant has a long memory and never forgets someone who has treated him
badly.”

Long range plans 
Far reaching plans for the future.

Long shot 
A bet or risk that has little chance of success; a … try

Long since gone 
No longer here and gone for a while

Long sojourn 
A long time spent in one place; long stay; rest; stop;

Long time no see. 
I have not seen you in a long time.

Long-awaited

Long-drawn-out

Long-lost friend

Long-term objectives

Long-winded (speech) 
Long-drawn-out; wordy; boring; lengthy monologue with too many words.

Look after number one first
Take care of yourself before you care for anyone else.

Look after someone 
Take care of a person.

Look after yourself 
Take care of yourself.

Look alive! 
Look lively! Be alert!

Look askance upon 
Look with disapproval upon;

Look back in anger 
“When I think of where I was born and how I was treated
there, I find it difficult not to look back in anger.”

Look down your nose at 
Distain;

Look in every nook and cranny.
Seek everywhere even in the smallest corners and cracks.

Look me in the eye whenyou say that.
An expression indicating some doubt about the truth of a
statement and thinking one can see guilt in the eyes if the
first speaker lies. “Look me in the eyes when you swear
that you will never betray my trust and confidence in
you.”

Look of distain

Look of indignation

Look on the sunny side 
Look on the bright side and be optimistic.

Look out for 
Be careful of; watch out for and be careful of.

Look ahead!

Look out. 
Be careful what you do.

Look sharp! 
Pay attention; hurry-up and get a move on;

Look the other way 
Pretend you did not see a violation of a custom, rule,
regulation or law, because you were “looking the other
way.” “My teacher said he would look the other way this
time because he thought I might learn more from shame
than punishment.” “Policemen sometimes accept a bribe
and look the other way.” “Billions of potential tax dollars 
never reach government coffers because corrupt customs
officials have been looking the other way.”

Look up to someone 
Admire; respect; hold in high esteem;

Looking daggers 
Darting angry looks at someone you are annoyed at;

Looking for trouble 
Looking for a fight Looking for a fight

Look-out for number one 
Take care of yourself first.

Looks a bit-dated 
Appears to be out-of-fashion, old-fashioned, not up-todate; a person who seems to belong to an earlier generation or period. “My aunt Molly looks a bit dated when
she comes to our house for Sunday dinner in dresses that
were in fashion ten years ago.”

Looming on the horizon 
Coming soon; about to appear; immanent.

Loose cannon 
Just as on the old gun-ships, if a big cannon got loose
and started sliding around the deck, there was no telling
the amount of damage it could do, so we may call a person is a loose cannon when his behavior is unpredictable
and potentially dangerous.

Loose talk 
Saying things and making promises and threats without
any intentions of fulfilling them.

Loose track of time 
Become so absorbed in something that time passes by
without you knowing it.

Loosen up 
Stop being up-tight; relax.

Loosing battle 
A fight you cannot win. “It’s a losing battle trying to get
big industries to protect the environment.” “I’ve been
trying to get the committee to accept my proposal, but it
is a losing battle.” “tring to get my father to quit smoking
is a losing battle.”

Lord of all you see 
The owner of all the land around as far as you can see.

Lose an opportunity

Lose appeal 
Become less popular, desirable; fashionable; fall out of
favor; become less sought-after. “Any new fad loses its
appeal after the novelty wears off.” “Hollywood film
starlets begin to lose their appeal as they get older and
their freshness and beauty begin to fade.” “Big band music was very popular in the 50’s but it began to lose its
appeal after the Beatles changed the direction of popular
music in the 60’s.”

Lose confidence 
Become discouraged.

Lose contact 
Become out-of-touch with.

Lose face 
Be embarrassed in front of others.

Lose faith 
Give up confidence.

Lose favor 
Become unpopular.

Lose heart 
Give up hope and stop trying.

Lose interest 
Cease to be interested; become bored by.

Lose out on 
Miss an opportunity.

Lose sleep over 
Feel anxiety about;

Lose spirit 
Give up hope. 

Lose track of something …; .. 
Lose track of time

Lose your grip …; 
on reality; on yourself;

Lose your shirt 
Become bankrupt right down to your last penny; lost a
lot of money on the deal;

Lose your temper 
Means to become angry or stressed or agitated instead of
remaining calm cool and collected as you normally
would; something has happened that made you react very
strongly against an act, thing or person that upset you and
made you react in an aggressive manner. “I have trouble
controlling my emotions and sometimes lose my temper
over the slightest little provocation.” “I’m sorry I lost my
temper the other day when you were joking about my
recent divorce, but I’m very sensitive on that subject.” “If
you are always losing your temper and fighting with
people this means that you ought to learn to control your
aggressions.”

Losing battle … 
“There’s no point in continuing, when we see we are
bound to fail. It’s a losing battle.”

Loss of life 
Wild animal may be let lose and be out on the prowl for
prey, so we

Lost an arm and a leg 
Lost a lot of money; suffered substantial financial losses;
made excessive losses; invested and failed. “Cuthbert
lost an arm and a leg on dot.com investments.” “I lost an
arm and a leg trying to help my sister refinance a shaky
business venture that soon went bankrupt.” “Jake and I
lost an arm and a leg trying to set up a drive in movie in
an old abandoned factory parking lot.”

Lost cause 
A cause worth fighting for in a battle you cannot win; an
ideal that cannot be achieved; a goal which cannot be
reached; a hope that cannot be fulfilled. “Idealists want
to believe in Thai democratic reform, but realistic observers expect the old system of power political control
to prevail for quite some time to come, and that supporting the democratic process is a lost cause.” “Environmental activists have been fighting to save the ozone
layer for decades, but when even American industrialists
refuse to cooperate, it seems to be a lost cause.” “The
family tried everything to stop my older brother’s heroine habit, including psychotherapy and drug rehabilitation programs, but in the end we had no success and had
to give him up as a lost cause.”

Lost your marbles 
Gone crazy; turned mad; lost control of your faculties;
become mentally deficient; turned into an idiot or fool. “I
think I’m losing my marbles. I keep forgetting people’s
names and where I put things.” “He used to be mentally
normal, but people say that after he fell off a horse and
hit his head on a rock at the age of nine, he lost his marbles and can’t think straight anymore.” “You must have 
lost your marbles, if you think we can replace the money
we have embezzled before the audit report becomes
due.”

Lounging around 
Lying around relaxing.

Lousy weather 
Very bad, terrible weather.

Low key 
Relaxed and comfortable.

Low level origins 
Born at the bottom of the social ladder.

Low man on the ladder 
The newest employee who must start from the bottom
and work his way up the chain from level to level until
he finally reaches the top; last in line chronologically to
become supervisor, department head, etc.; the one who
will be promoted last of all. “I know you want to be
chairman of the department, but you are low man on the
ladder and will just have to wait your turn.” “I started as
low man on the ladder and worked my way up step-bystep to finally become Chairman of the Board.” In the
army, the newly-recruited private is low man on the ladder.”

Low man on the totem pole
Same as above.

Low-down and no-good
scoundrel

Lowest rung of the ladder 
Like lowest man on the ladder, except the word ‘rung’
can also denote the lowest level of moral behavior

Low-life

Loyal to the last

Lucked-out
To become lucky

Luck-of-the-draw 
Chance; fortune; fate; … “In this life, you have to play
the cards you are dealt. That’s the luck of the draw.”

Lucky day 
A day in which you have good luck.

Luke-warm reaction 
Unenthusiastic; indifferent; half-hearted; cool…

Lump in your throat

Lurking suspicion 
A doubt in the back of your mind;

Lust for life 
Desire for the pleasures and experiences of life.

Lust for power 
Strong desire for power.

Lying through your teeth 

Machismo attitude 
Very male and masculine; ……….macho man

Mad as a wet hen 
Just as a chicken will run around madly and make a lot of
clucking, complaining noises if you throw water upon it,
so a person’s behavior can be compared to running
around; really angry; in a rage; loudly voicing complaint
about what has happened. “My Mom will be mad as a
wet hen when she finds out that I broke her favorite Chinese porcelain vase playing kickball in the living room
while she was away.” “The head nurse was mad as a wet
hen when she discovered that grandfather had not been
taking the medicine they always put on his tray.” “Auntie
Jean will be mad as a wet hen when she discovers that
she has been left off the invitation list.”

Made to measure

Made-up 
Imaginary; not true; fabricated; “I’ll have to make up a
story as an excuse for not coming to work yesterday.”

Magic moment

Maiden voyage 
A ship’s first voyage. “The ship, Titanic was sunk on her
maiden voyage.”

Maimed-for-life 
Deformed by bodily injury for the rest of one’s life.

Main ambition 
Mist important aim or goal in life.

Main drag 
The main street in town.

Main man 
The most important person. “Hey, man! What’s happening? How’s my main man?”

Maintain balance … 
equilibrium

Maintain silence 
Do not speak or give information about a subject.

Make a beeline for the door
Head straight towards the door; hurry to get out by heading directly for the door. “When the bell rings and class
is over, the students make a beeline for the door.” “When
the fire alarm sounded all the shoppers made a beeline
for the door.” “Once the Sunday church service has
ended, I’m the first one to make a beeline for the door.”

Make a big fuss 
Complain a lot and make a big- to-do; Make a stink

Make a bundle 
Make a huge amount of money;

Make a clean break with the past
Cut-off ties immediately and irrevocably. “I want to
make a clean break with the past and start my life anew.”
“When I get out of prison, I want to make a clean break
with the past and go straight. “Let’s get a divorce and
make a clean break with the past.”

Make a clean breast of things
Tell everything that you know; open your heart and tell
all.

Make a comeback 
Return to being successful after a comedown.

Make a dash for the door. 
Run for the exit to try to escape.

Make a difference 
Do something to try to make the world better; change the world;

Make a fool of yourself 
Do something that makes you look stupid

Make a fuss 
Get upset and make a scene.

Make a hasty retreat 
Get out of there quickly to avoid further trouble.

Make a killing 
To suddenly get a lot of money from a business idea or
venture; to get rich quick; “The man who invented nylon
panty-hose made a killing on it.”

Make a mental note 
Just observe and be aware without reacting; notice and
remember for later.

Make a mess of things 
Do a poor job of; make a mistake; do everything wrong.

Make a mockery out of something or something
Scorn and scoff and make fun of; joke and laugh about;
tease; ridicule; make a laughing stock out of something
or someone. “…

Make a mountain out of a mole hill.
Get upset over a little thing by exaggerating it inti a big
thing.

Make a night of it 
Party and drink all night.

Make a pass at a woman 
Make a sexual advance;

Make a pest of yourself 
Make a nuisance of yourself;

Make a pile of money 
Ear a lot of money; a load of money.

Make a pun 
Make a play–on-words;

Make a scene

Make a spectacle of yourself.

Make allowances for

Make an example of 
Choose someone to punish, as a warning of what will
happen if the others do not cooperate and follow the rules
and regulations. “When I was in school, I was a very
rude and cheeky boy, so whenever the teacher wanted to
choose someone to make an example of, he always
picked on me so the others would realize that if he could
keep me in line, he could make them follow and obey as
well.” “The factory periodically fires a workman who
does not clock-in for work on time, just to make an example of him.” “In the war, the Germans would sometimes pick somebody, at random, out of a line of prisoners, and shoot him before the eyes of all the others just as
an example of what might happen to them if they drew
attention to themselves.”

Make an impression 
positive effect;

Make both ends meet 
Balance your budget;

Make common sense

Make concessions

Make do with what you have
Do the best you can with what you have

Make eyes at 
Flirt; look with longing; showing sexual interest. “She
made eyes at me in such an enticing way thet I could not
resist temptation.” 

Make haste 
Speed-up; hurry-up; move quickly.

Make hay while the sun shines.
Just as the farmer may cut grass to make hay when the
sun shines, so we may as well have fun as long as things
are going well;

Make head or tail out of it
Understand if it is one thing or the other; makes no sense;
can’t figure it out.

Make headway 
Just as a sailing ship must zigzag (tack)back and forth
across the wind to make headway against it, so we can
say we are making headway against difficult problems in
the development of a project or business.

Make it big 
Become a great success

Make it or break it. 
Either succeed in a big way or break your self trying.

Make it snappy! 
Hurry-up!

Make it up as you go along improvise

Make it worth your while 
Give someone an incentive to do something.

Make me or break me

Make mincemeat out of you
Beat someone to a pulp;

Make no big difference.

Make no bones about it. 
Don’t complain; pick a bone. “you can be sure that the
rule will remain in effect and make no bones about it.”

Make no mention of it.

Make no mistake about it.
You can be certain about; you can be sure of the fact that.

Make redundant 
Be laid-off your job; pensioned-off; have your job cut;

Make the best of a bad situation.

Make the best of things; 
…make the best of what you
have… ; …make the best of what you have

Make the big leagues 
Just as a baseball player might work his way up tp plat in
the big leagues, so we can say a businessman or entrepreneur makes it big and becomes one of the leading …

Make the grade 
Just as a steam engine had to …

Make the most of … 
“We’d better try and make the most of a bad situation
or things will only get worse.” “Try to make the most of
your life no matter how great the odds against you and
the obstacles to overcome.” “Try to make the

Make tracks 
Get away quickly before you are caught.

Make waves 
Cause trouble; complain and complicate the process;

Make your hair stand on end

Make your mark in life

Make your move 
Don’t hesitate; do something; start things moving and see what happens

Make your way in life 
Get ahead

Make yourself at home 
Make yourself comfortable, as though you were in your
own home.

Make yourself scarce 
Get out of here; don’t let your self be seen around here 
too often. “You’d better make yourself scarce before the
police arrive and arrest you.” “You’d better make your
self scarce before my mother sees me talking to you and
gets a bee in her bonnet.” “I’d better disappear and make
myself scarce before those street boys gang up on me.
They’re liable to beat me to a pulp.”

Make yourself useful ….. ; 
…. “Make yourself useful for a change

Make-believe 
Imaginary; made up in the mind.

Makes me mad 
Causes you to become angry;

Makes me nervous 
Causes me to feel worried and anxious.

Makes my blood boil 
Causes me to become really angry.

Makes my flesh crawl 
Makes my skin feel creepy;

Makes my mouth water 
Looks appetizing;

Makes no difference to me
I don’t care one way or the other;

Makes no sense at all 
Confusing; against all logic; hard to understand. “In
business investment, It makes no sense to throw good
money after bad.”

Make-up an excuse 
Think-up; fabricate; create in the imagination; lie; tell a
story.

Make-up for 
Repay; make good for; make recompense; make amends.

Make-up your mind 
Don’t hesitate; decide, choose, determine what you are
going to do.

Making a fool of yourself
Behaving stupidly and making yourself look silly.

Malicious intent 
Evil purpose; hateful plan; hurtful objective.

Malign someone 
Talk badly about a person with harmful intent; criticize
negatively; slander; libel; smear someone’s character
with malicious intent…

Man in the street 
The common, normal, everyday individual.

Man of means 
A man with a substantial income.

Man with a mission

Man’s best friend dog

Man-about-town

Manage somehow 
Get by one way or the other; find a way to deal with the
problem; survive without help.

Manipulative person 
Someone who coerces other to do what he wants

Man-to-man 
Meet and resolve your differences like a man, one on
one, and face to face,

March of time 
The passing of time;

March to the beat of your own drum
Follow your internal instincts; don’t be afraid to go it
alone; follow your own path; …

Marching papers 
Documents of dismissal when you are fired; notice of
termination.

Marginal difference 
A very small difference

Marital indiscretion 
Giving-in to a sexual temptation to cheat on one’s marriage partner. ‘I’m sorry Dear. I have made a mistake and 
committed a marital indiscretion.”

Mark my words 
You remember what I have said.

Marked man 
Someone who is going to be killed or punished for what
he did. “Someone who is willing to testify in court
against the mafia becomes a marked man.” “Since betraying the Prime Minister’s trust within his own party,
Sanders has become a marked man.”

Marked-difference 
Noticeable disparity;

Marking time 
Just waiting for time to go by until the expected moment
or date arises.

Marry into money 
Marry someone from a rich family.

Marry beneath yourself …; beneath your station

Masochistic tendencies 
Having the inclination to want to hurt others

Mass hysteria 
Everybody going madly into a panic and frenzy.

Matter of opinion 
Something that can be seen differently depending on yiy
point of view.

Matter-of-fact 
Realistic; plain and open tosee.

Maverick individual 
Just as a maverick cow wanders and strays away from
the herd and go off on its own way, so some people may
be described as mavericks when they …

Meal ticket 
Someone who will pay all your expenses from now on.

Mean well …; 
well-meaning individual

Means to and end 
A way of getting something that you want.

Measure up to … ; 
… measure up to standard

Meat of the matter 
The heart and meaning of the subject; the central point;
the main essence.

Meddle in someone’s affairs.

Mix in someone else’s business.

Meek and mild 
Timid and gentle;

Meet someone half way 
Compromise;

Meet the challenge

Meet trouble half-way 
Do what you can to avoid trouble before it arises.

Meet your maker 
Go to heaven at the time of your death.

Meet your match

Melt in your mouth

Melt-away 
Disappear; fade away into the haze;

Memory like a sieve 
Just as water drains through a sieve, so

Mend your ways 
Learn to behave in a better fashion.

Mending fences 
Just as a farmer …, so people can begin patching-up differences and improving bad relations;

Menial task 
Unskilled, boring, tedious job. “Some women do not like
doing the menial tasks of housework.”

Mental block

Merry-go-round

Messed-up 
Mixed-up psychologically; screwed-up mentally; … on drugs;

Messing around 

Messy situation

Meteoric rise to success 
Sudden; rapid; dramatic …

Middle-aged spread 
A fat belly/stomach that comes when people are about
forty or so, and usually doesn’t go away.

Middle-of-the-road 
Moderate;

Might as well go for broke.

Miles away 
Lost in thought.

Miles to go before 
I sleep A lot to do before I am finished; many things I have to
accomplish before I can rest; a lot of living and learning
and struggling before I reach the end; a lot of struggling
before me before the end when it comes time for me to
die.

Millstone around your neck

Mind like a sieve 
Just a water runs through a sieve or colander when we
wash fruit or vegetables, so things we want to remember
can escape the mind because we are forgetful and cannot
remember things

Mind over matter 
Consciousness controlling corporality; mind control of
material objects.

Mind set 
A set way of seeing things; with a set view or attitude.

Mind your manners 
Take care to behave politely.

Mind your own business..
Do not mix in other’s affairs.

Mind your P’s and Q’s 
Be careful about what you say and do; look out; watch
out. “As a school boy, I was taught to follow my P’s and
Q’s and follow the rules and stay out of trouble.” “You’d
better mind your P’s and Q’s and follow regulations to
the letter, or the next time the Dean may kick you out of
school.” “Mind your P’s and Q’s and act and behave with
caution so you don’t bring any negative attention upon
yourself and have to suffer the consequences.”

Mingle with the crowd 
Mix in with the crowd

Mischief maker 
Trouble maker; one who is always trying to create mischief. “when I was a kid, I was always the mischief
maker in the class.” *

Mischievous behavior 
Naughty; impish; ill-behaved

Misery loves company. 
People like to share their misery by talking to others in
the same situation. “It’s hard to be alone when you feel
so miserable.” “Those who feel miserable seek the company of others who are in the same situation and who
will understand them.” “As like seeks like, the miserable
seek the company of the miserable.”

Miss the boat 
Miss out on an important chance or opportunity because
of your own fault.

Miss the main chance 
Pass up the best opportunity. Not take advantage of …

Miss the mark 
Fail to achieve your goal; not be quite up to the required 
standard; fail to fulfill your aim.

Misspent youth 
Younger years wasted in pursuit of personal pleasure.

Mistaken identity 
Mistakenly supposing someone you see is a person you
know

Mixed-blessing 
Something good that comes to you accompanied by bad
side-effects.

Mixed-emotions 
Mixed-feelings that are not clear one way or another;
conflicting views that cause conflicting emotions.

Mixed-motives

Moment of indiscretion 
Any moment in which one foolishly gives-in to temptation, sexually or otherwise.

Money to burn 
Means someone with so much money to spend he may as
well burn some of it

Monkey on your back 
An addiction such as to heroin. “There is nothing so pitiful and beyond contempt as a heroin addict with a monkey on his back.” “For twenty years, I had the monkey on
my back, but I finally managed to shake it off and live a
normal life.” “I don’t want my kids growing up with a
monkey on their backs.”

Monkeying around! 
Playing around and fooling about. “The boys were monkeying around in the tool shop when one of then was injured.”

Monkeyshines 
Tomfoolery; making a monkey out-of-yourself;

Monotone voice … ; 
“I like Prof. Peepers personally, but I fall asleep in
his lectures w hen he drones on- and-on in a monotone
voice.”

Monotonous tone 
Tedious, boring sound or voice; with the same unchanging tome.

Mooching off others … ; 
…“I used to know this girl we called Minnie the
Moocher because …“I used to know this girl we called
Minnie the Moocher because …

Moping around 
Hanging around making a long face; looking sad and
miserable. “He’s still moping around and looking down
in the dumps because he cannot forget his disappointment.”

Moral support 
Inspiration and encouragement;

Morbid curiosity

More than 
I bargained for Worse than I expected; harder than I expected;

More than meets the eye

More trouble than it is worth
Not worth the bother;

Mortal enemies 
Deadly foes;

Mouth watering 
Delicious looking, tasting.

Mouth-off

Move heaven and earth 
Do everything possible; do everything within one’s
power; try one’s utmost; go to great lengths. “I would
move heaven and earth to get Evelyn to marry me.” “The
city councilman promised to try to move heaven and 
earth and do everything within his power to get the
mayor to approve the new downtown development plan.”
“We will move heaven and earth and try our utmost to
get the project completed on time.”

Move in for the kill 
Get ready to …

Moved to tears 
Aroused by emotion to the point of crying.

Muddle through 
Do your best to solve the problem alone, on your own, as
best as you can, however awkwardly; manage to somehow get by; handle the problem as well as you are able
to. “I don’t know how I’m going to learn to run father’s
business alone, but let me try to muddle through, and if I
need any help I’ll let you know.” “I’m having a problem
with my algebra homework, and I may need your help,
but first let me muddle through and see how well I can
do.” “Grandmother is getting too old to take care of herself, but she’d rather muddle through on her own than be
dependent on anyone else.”

Muddle-headed 
Confused, mixed-up; incapable of thinking clearly.

Mudslinging 
Just as children can throw mud at each other, so politicians can make false or even true accusations against one
another.

Mug shot 
Full-face photograph. “The police always take a mug
shot of every detainee…m

Mull something over 
Take time to think about it;

Mum’s the word 
Keep quiet; don’t say anything about this; keep it silent;
don’t tell anyone.

Murky depths 
Just as deep in the ocean one cannot see very far because
of the darkness, so people sometimes find themselves
peering in the murky depths of a problem that they cannot solve because it is beyond their ken of understanding.

Muscle-in-on 
Intrude by using force; muscle your way in; get yourself
in-on-something by using your strength, power, might;

Music to my ears 
I am so glad to ! That’s the news that I have been waiting for.

Musical chairs 
Just as in the children’s game

Mutter under your breath 
Mumble and grumble to yourself so no one else can hear.

Mutual admiration 
Two people or groups which admire one another based
on the same motives or reasons.

Muzzle someone 
Just as we muzzle a dog so it cannot bite, so, for example, a judge may muzzle a person by giving the order...

My door is always open 
I am always there when you need me; just come and see me anytime.

My English is getting rusty.
I’m out of practice in speaking English; it’s been a while
since I had to use my English; if you don’t use it, you
lose it; just as iron rusts if you do not use it, so a language rusts if you don’t use it. “My English is getting
rusty. I’ve hardly used it since I left school.” “When I 
lived abroad in the USA, I spoke fluent English, but,
now, after ten years, it’s getting a little rusty, especially
since I have had little opportunity to use it.” “My English
has been getting rusty because I find that I use it less and
less as time goes on.”

My foot! 
I don’t believe you; that’s a lie; it’s untrue; what a lot of
crap!"He says his car isn't working." "Not working my foot. He's just too lazy to come."

My goodness gracious! 
An expression of surprise, usually to express shock or
disappointment, replacing words like “My God!” “My
goodness!” “My goodness gracious! Look how time
flies. Now I’m going to be late for my appointment at the
hairdresser’s.” ‘…

My goose is cooked! 
I’m in big trouble now;

My hands are tied. 
I am not free to take any action; there is nothing I can do;
I am not at liberty to help; regulations prevent me from
taking any action.” “The court has ruled that she will retain legal custody of our child, and there is nothing I can
do about it. My hands are tied.” “I would like to help
you, but it is against company regulations, so my hands
are tied.”

My lips are sealed. 
Lips that are sealed-closed cannot be opened to reveal a
secret. “When someone says his lips are sealed, that
means he promises never to reveal a secret to anyone.” “I
know your dirty little secret but my lips are sealed. I’ll
never tell on you.” I’ll swear never tell anybody about
the scandal, because I am aware of the harm it can do to
your family. My lips are sealed”

My patience is getting thin
I am running out of patience; about to lose my patience
and react angrily; you are trying my patience. “My patience is getting thin, so if I were you I wouldn’t do anything more to annoy me or I’ll smack you one.” “My patience is getting thin and If those two women don’t stop
their bickering soon, I’ll give them a lesson they’ll not
soon forget.” “I try to listen to my wife’s continuing
complaints, but my patience is getting thin and I fear
what I may do to her if she doesn’t soon shut-up.”

My pleasure. 
You are welcome. I am pleased to be able to do something for you.

Mysterious circumstances
No one knows the secret of exactly what happened. 

Nagging conscience 
A guilty conscious that keeps bothering one.

Nagging wife 
A wife who never stops complaining.

Nail down 
Pin down; pinpoint;

Name names 
To inform-on people by telling the police or the press or
the company who they are.

Name of the game 
The way things go the main purpose behind how things
happen.

Name the day! 
Just tell me when!

Name-calling 
Calling each other bad names using bad words.

Name-dropper 
Someone who wants to show off by mentioning all the
important people he knows. “… …name-dropping

Narrow escape 
Near disaster or catastrophe; brush with danger and
death.

Narrow squeak 
A close brush with; a tight and dangerous situation.

Narrow-minded 
Opinionated; not open to other’s opinions; with tunnel
vision.

Nature of the beast 
That’s the way man is; nature made him that way.

Nature’s way 
According to the law of nature

Near miss 
Not quite successful; did not quite reach the desired
level.

Near to impossible 
Almost beyond possibility;

Nearest and dearest 
Those closest to us; kith and kin.

Near-sighted Just

Nebulous notion 
Vague, hazy, unclear, fuzzy idea

Necessary evil 
Something bad that cannot be avoided

Neck and neck 
Competing equally; one not ahead or behind the other.

Neck of the woods
In our area or region of the forest.

Neck-breaking speed 
Dangerously fast speed so that you would break your
neck if you fell down or off.

Needle in a haystack 
Just as it would be hard to find a needle in a haystack, so we

Needle someone …. ; 
…….needling remark

Needless to say 
It goes without saying; it is hardly necessary to mention.

Need-to-know-basis 
Tell people only if they need to know to perform their
duty; otherwise, keep the information confidential.

Negligible difference 
A difference so small that it is hardly noticeable.

Neither here nor there 
Irrelevant; not one not the other.

Neither-fish-nor-fowl 
Neither one thing nor the other; hard to distinguish between two things; not one thing and not the other; somewhere in between; in the middle. “Fried-frog’s legs stand
in a class of their own. They’re neither-fish-nor-fowl”
“He’s neither a conservative nor a liberal. Sometimes he
votes one way; sometimes the other way. You might say 
that he’s neither-fish-nor-fowl.” “The way people cut
their hair short and dress in unisex fashions, it’s sometimes to tell if people are male or female. They seem to
be neither fish nor-fowl.”

Nerve racking 
Hard on the nerves; putting one under a lot of stress.

Nervous wreck 
Someone who through stress is almost ready for a nervous breakdown.

Nest egg 
Just as you have to keep one egg in the chicken’s nest so
it will continue brooding and nesting, so we may say that
we are keeping a sum of money as a nest egg …

Never a dull moment 
Always interesting with something new coming up.

Never darken my door again
Never let me see you or your evil shadow before my door
again, because I know you are a person with harmful intentions and I can never forget injury to have done to me.
“After the disgraceful way you have treated our daughter,
we never want you to darken our door again. Go away
and stay away.” “Because of the nasty, intimate gossip
you have spread about my family, I never want you to
darken my door again.” “After our legal proceedings
were finalized, I told her I wanted her to get out of my
life and never darken my door again.”

Never fear 
Do not be afraid.

Never let up 
Persist without pause; never give up!.

Never lift a finger 
Make no attempt to assist; make no effort to help; too
lazy to make the slightest exertion; let someone else do
the job for you. “I want to marry a man who is so welloff that I never have to work or lift a finger again in my
life.” “Mom complains that Jack never lifts a finger to
help around the house.” “After Aunt Virginia’s eightieth
birthday party everybody pitched-in to help wash the
dishes, except for Aunt Virginia, of course. We refused
to let her lift even her little finger.”

Never look back 
Never remember the mistakes and the pain of the past.

Just keep going forward.

Never misses a trick 
Tries every deception and device there is to get what he
wants.

Never raised a hand against me
Never hit me.

Never say die! 
Never give up!

Never-ending 
Never-ending saga is a story that goes on and on.

Never-never-land

New angle 
Unique lie or deception

New blood

New lease on life

New-fangled 
New; modern; innovative; novel; “… technology

Next in line 
Just as we can say a prince is the heir apparent, the next
on to ascend the throne, so we can say a person is next in
line for a promotion or appointment. 

Next to nothing 
Almost nothing at all.

Next-of-kin 
Family relatives and relations. “When a person dies it is
customary to notify the next-of-kin.” “In my last will and
testament, I did not leave anything to my next-of-kin but
donated every thing I had to charity instead.” “When a
person dies with no next-of-kin, he becomes the responsibility of the state.”

Niche market 
A small market for only a certain segment of the industry.

Nick-of-time 
Just at the last moment.

Night owl 
Someone who likes to go out and prowl around at night.

Nip in the bud 
Cut in the beginning stage so it cannot develop further.

Nippy weather 
Cool and frosty weather.

Nitty-gritty 
Down into the smallest details.

No big deal. 
Never mind; it’s not important; it’s not of any significance.

No cause for alarm 
No reason to be afraid.

No chance! 
There’s no way I’ll do it! No hope in hell;

No choice but to 
No other option or recourse but to;

No comparison! 
The one is better than the other.

No contest 
Declare the opponent the winner without waiting for the
competition to end

No dice! 
I disagree; I refuse; I won’t do it; no way; forget it.

No good trying 
It will no do any good if you keep trying

No great shakes 
Not very good

No hard feelings. 
Let’s not hold a grudge against one another;

No harm in trying 
There will be no harm in at least making an attempt; ...trying

No inkling 
No idea; no notion; no hint

No laughing matter 
Nothing to joke about; not funny but serious

No love lost between them
They do not like one another

No one in his right mind would…
One would have to be crazy to …

No one is indispensable 
Everyone can be replaced; no one is irreplaceable.
“Don’t get the mistaken impression that the company
couldn’t get along without you. No one is indispensable.”
“Sometimes we become so over-confident that we begin
to believe that our input to a combined-group effort is so
vital and essential that we are replaceable. But this the
wrong attitude. No one is indispensable.” “We all believed that our company president was indispensable and
irreplaceable and that the company would fall apart
without him, but when we made a merger with a larger
firm and he was sidelined, we realized that no one is indispensable.”

No other recourse 
No alternative way out; no other option; no other choice. 

No qualms 
No regrets; no bad conscience or guilt; no reservations;
no misgivings; uncertainties. “He felt no qualms about
cheating on the exam.” Theodore had no qualms about
keeping two sets of books for his company and cheating
the Revenue Department out of millions of dollars of tax
money.” “Flossy felt no qualms about having an affair
with her best friend’s husband.” “The witness felt no
qualms a bout informing the police about how her nearest
neighbor had bruised and battered his wife.”

No regrets 
Often a person who has done something wrong, does not
feel sorry for or ashamed of his action, and might do the
same thing gain; sometimes “no regrets” means there is
no point in feeling sorry for what happened in the past
especially if we have learned something from it. “He was
executed for his crime without showing any form of regret or remorse for his action.” “My first marriage didn’t
last long, but I have no regrets because we both benefited
from the experience.”

No relevance …… ; 
…… no relevance to the question

No rhyme or reason 
Makes no sense

No show 
Someone who did no appear; show up; arrive; come; attend a meeting or outing.

No skin off my nose 
That doesn’t hurt me, so I couldn’t care less.

No sooner said than done!
Just give the order and it will be carried out immediately;
we can do it as quickly as you can say it.

No spring chicken 
No longer so young any more.

No strings attached 
With no stipulations; free of any obligations.

No sweat. 
We’ll do what you wish, with no problem; it’s not hard
to do; we can accomplish it without much effort or difficulty; “Don’t worry. No one has to work up a sweat to
get the job done.” “Don’t worry. Trust us. We can handle
it. It’s no sweat.” “It’s a cinch.”

No two ways about it. 
That is the one and only right way of viewing things;
that’s for sure.

No use complaining 
It will not help to grumble and feel sorry for yourself.

No way! No! 
Definitely not; not on your life. “I’m not going to do
what you want; there’s no way you can convince me to
do it.”

Nobody’s fool 
Someone smart who is not easily tricked; quite clever
and hard to fool; won’t fall for any deceptive swindle. “It
would be hard to deceive the company managing partner.
He’s nobody’s fool.”

Nobody’s perfect.

Nodding-off 
Dozing-off; falling-off to sleep

Non-applicable 
Does not apply.

None the worse for wear

None-of-your-business 
Not your affair; nothing to do with you.

None-too-soon 
About time; only in-the-nick-of-time; “ ……….just at 
the last minute before it would have been too late.’

Nose in the air 
Stuck-up; conceited; thinking one is better than everyone
else.

Nose job 
Plastic surgery on the nose.

Nosey 
Curious; prying; inquisitive; sticking your nose in where
it doesn’t belong; minding other people’s business.
“Don’t be so nosey and mind your own business.”

Not a leg to stand on 
Lacks firm foundation in facts

Not a murmur out of you 
Don’t say anything; don’t make even the slightest sound;
not a word of complaint out of you.

Not a peep out of you 
You be quiet; don’t make even the slightest sound; be
silent; keep your mouth shut; don’t say anything; whatever you may think, do not disagree, complain or show
dissatisfaction; do what you are told without comment
(often said to children or subordinates).

Not a penny to your name
Stone broke.

Not acceptable! 
Unacceptable; not good enough; not justified.

Not all it’s cracked-up to be

Not as good as everyone says or thinks it is.

Not all there 
Mentally deficient; with a screw missing.

Not anywhere near 
Not even close.

Not bad! 
Quite good! Well done! Good looking!

Not by a long shot 
Highly unlikely.

Not for love or money 
Not for anything in the world;

Not getting anywhere 
Making no headway.

Not in my backyard 
Do it somewhere but not in my immediate environment.

Not in your wildest dreams
There is no way I’ll do what you want not enen in your
wildest dreams.

Not long for this world 
With not long to live

Not much between the ears
With little brain.

Not my bag 
It’s not my way of looking at things; not what I really
like. “Opera music is not my bag. What I really dig is
cool jazz.”

Not my cup of tea 
Not quite what I prefer; not what I like; not to my taste;
not what I really enjoy. “Other people may enjoy public
speaking, but it’s not really my cup of tea.”

Not necessarily so 
That is not necessarily true; it does not follow out of necessity

Not on my watch 
Not when I am in charge and responsible.

Not on your life 
I’m not doing it; no way; nothing doing.

Not particular 
Not picky or choosy; satisfied with whatever one gets.

Not privy to the facts 
Not in possession if the fullinformation.

Not short of a penny 
Having lots of money; very rich.

Not so hot 
Not very good;

Not the done thing 
Not the proper thing that society expects you to do. 

Not the end of the world 
It’s not so bad as you think; much worse things could
happen.

Not too bad. 
Quite good.

Not up to par 
Not good enough; does not meet the expected requirement.

Not up-to-speed 
Not good enough; unsatisfactory; below the expected
standard.

Not worth a damn 
No good; useless;

Not worth the paper it’s printed on
Of almost no value whatsoever.

Nothing doing! 
No way; I refuse; don’t ask me to do that; I disagree; I
won’t do it; the answer is no; not on your life; not for allthe-world.

Nothing personal.
Don’t take it personally. It’s Just business. “Sorry, that I
got the contract instead of you. Nothing personal. Just
business.” “I’m going to have to kill you now, but it’s
nothing personal. I’m a hit-man and that’s just what they
pay me for.”

Nothing special 
There is nothing happening that is unusual or out of the
ordinary.

Nothing to do with you 
Not any of your business.

Nothing to fear 
There is nothing to be afraid of.

Nothing to gain 
No benefit to received; no profit expected.

Nothing to hide 
No secret or hidden guilt; no bad intention or action to
conceal. “I have nothing to hide. Ask me any question
you want and I’ll tell you the truth.” “a man with a clear
conscious has nothing to conceal and nothing to hide.” *

Nothing to it. 
It’s easy.

Nothing to say 
No comment; no opinion on the matter.

Nothing to sniff at 
… no trifling matter

Nothing to write home about
Nothing special;

Nothing wrong 
Everything id OK; there is nothing the matter; there is no
problem in. “There is nothing wrong in telling a little
white now and again if it helps to avoid pain

Notified by 
Means that notice is given by someone to someone about
something. “The meeting was notified by the chairman
that there would be an increase in registered capital.”
“The company was notified by the Revenue Department
that the rate of tax assessment, in this case, would be
0.05 percent.” “The staff was notified by management
that there would be a three month’s pay bonus at the end
of the year.”

Notify someone of something
To inform someone officially of some action or fact;
Now and again From time to time; sometimes, but not too often.
Now or never If you don’t do it now, you’ll never have the chance 
again.

Now you’re talking! 
Now, that’s an idea I like to hear!

Now, I’ve gone and done it!
Ops! Now I’ve made the mistake I was trying to avoid.

Now, we’re even. 
I’ve returned what I owe you; settled the score; settled
our differences; got revenge. “Because you murdered my
brother, I have murdered your brother, and now we’re
even.” “You stole my money so I stole your wife, and,
now, I figure we’re even.” “You owe me $6,000 in gambling debts, but if you give me your Rolex watch now,
I’ll say that we are even.” “I paid you back the money I
owe you and now we’re even Steven.”

Nudge someone into 
Push someone slightly with your body or elbow as a sign
you want him to do something

Null and void

Number cruncher 
A person who works with numbers like a stock analyst,
auditor or accountant.

Nut’s to you! 
I won’t do what you asked. To hell with you!

Nutty as a fruitcake 
Totally nuts or crazy; absolutely mad; queer; an oddball;
around the bend. “My friend Martin is as nutty as a fruitcake but he is totally harmless.” “He was fine for years
and appeared to be totally normal, but the he became as
nutty as a fruitcake.” “Be careful what you say when you
go to visit Uncle Edmund. He’s nutty as a fruitcake, and
you never know what he might do if he gets provoked

Nuzzle-up-to someone 
Snuggle; cuddle

Oasis of calm 
A place of absolute quiet to which to escape

Obliterate the whole human race
Wipe-out and destroy the whole of humanity;

Obsequious manner 
Submissive, fawning, obsequious, flattering manner.

Obstreperous individual 
Stubborn; defiant; complaining; noisy;

Occasion to celebrate

Occasional indiscretion

Occupational hazard

Odd jobs

Oddball character 
Eccentric person or individual;

Odds and ends 
Bits of this and that;

Of no account 
Not important; of no matter;

Of sound mind 
Mentally normal; not crazy; psychologically balanced.

Of the old school 
Conservative; old-fashioned; 

Of two minds 
Cannot decide one way or the other.

Of unsound mind 
Not mentally stable; mentally imbalanced.

Off on a tangent 
Get off topic and go in another direction

Off the beaten-track 
Far away from where others usually go; nowhere near
any main road; out of the way; out in the sticks; in the
boondocks; out in the backwoods; off the beaten path.
“My wife and I want to spend a quiet, romantic weekend
together on a secluded lake far off the beaten track.”
“You’ll never find my cabin unless I draw you a map.
It’s far off the beaten track.” “Some hillbillies live so far
off the beaten track that only the members of the family
would know how to get back home.”

Off the cuff 
Speak spontaneously; ad lib; unrehearsed; impromptu;
improvised on the spur of the moment; made up as you
go along; saying whatever comes into your mind; shoot
from the hip. “Sometimes, slanderous off the cuff remarks, made off the record, can get Hollywood stars into
big trouble if they are misquoted out of context by the
press.” “Don’t ask me to speak on the issue off the cuff.
Let me give it some forethought and then, I’ll make an
official statement.” “If you always say what you know
and never lie, you should always be able to speak openly
and freely and off the cuff without having to rehearse
your words beforehand.”

Off the deep end 
Gone crazy; totally mad; gone too far this time; out of
control of him self; trying something so risky that it can
only end in disaster.

Off the hook 
Just as a fish bites into the bait and gets hooked on the
fisherman’s line, so a person can be fooled or caught by
hook or crook. Just as the fish sometimes gets off the
hook and frees himself, so the person baited and then
caught can get out of the situation or out of trouble by
somehow freeing himself, talking his way out of it or
through luck or influence. “They said I had stolen the
secret documents but I got off the hook by producing the
evidence that my boss had done it.” “My wife thought I
was having a love affair because I started coming home
late every night, but she let me off the hook when she
realized I’d been working overtime with our team to
meet an important tax deadline.

Off the record 
To speak unofficially; coming from informed-sources;
not to be quoted

Off the top of my head

Off to a false start

Off-beat 
Unconventional;

Off-color remark 
To say something not in good taste; using bad language;
swear or curse words; or to make a sexually indiscreet or
inappropriate comment. “She did not like his off-color 
language and remarks, which she told him were verbal
forms of sexual abuse.” “In the bar at the social club,
gentlemen are asked to politely refrain from making offcolor remarks.” “Aunt Polly never invites her brother,
Phillip, to Christmas dinner because he always makes
off-color remarks that are embarrassing to the ladies.”

Offer an olive branch to 
Make an offer of peace.

Offer you cannot refuse

Off-hand remark 
Careless comment; discourteous statement; an unkind
aside; said without thinking; a spontaneous derogatory
observation; made without forethought. “Be careful not
to make any off- hand remarks about the Americans
when w go to the Embassy dinner.” “Jeab made an off
hand remark on a TV talk show that was offensive to
Laotian people, and she later had to retract it and apologize.” “Sometimes a careless, off-hand, unkind comment
made over a glass of wine can affect the course of your
entire career.” “I resent the sarcastic tone of your offhand remarks regarding my good intentions, and I can
assure you, Sir, that any evil you think or do will return
to you.”

Off-the-wall 
Unconventional; bizarre; as if from out of nowhere; out
of logical context

Off-your-rocker 
Crazy; mentally-unbalanced; deranged; out-of-yourhead; totally mad or insane. “You must be absolutely offyour-rocker to suggest that we walk into the museum and
simply steal the Hope Diamond in front of everybody.”
“Uncle Kendrick has been a little bit off his rocker since
Auntie Katie died.” “You’ve got to be off-your-rocker to
believe that the Republican right-wing will ever allow
the Democratic activist left-wing to ever have any more
power that the laws governing freedom-of-speech will
legally allow.”

Oil the wheels 
Pay bribery money to get thing started.

Old flame 
Ex-lover in the past; an old

Old hand 
A man who has been on the job a long time and knows
all about it.

Old hat 
Old-fashioned; not up-to-date; a thing of the past. “Forget the news and views of Dr. Death. That’s old hat.”
“Don’t tell me the sad story of Princess Diana. That’s old
hat. Tell me something new that I don’t yet know.”

Old maid 
Unmarried spinster; perhaps with old-fashioned views.

Old money 
Money that has been in the family for a long time.

Old-fashioned 
Traditional; conventional; behind the times; outmoded;

Old-timer 
An old man who has been around for a long time and has
a lot of tales to tell

On a collision course 
Directed towards a head-on crash.

On a hunch 
Resulting from a sudden thought or idea; a guess; premonition; instinct; sudden inspiration; chance feeling.
“As if guided by some sixth sense or feeling, I had the
sudden hunch that you wanted to find and speak to me.”
“Just on a hunch, I decided to look in the Seattle phonebook to see if I might find your number and address.”
“Just on a hunch, I had the feeling that you might be ill
and need me so I decided to call and inquire about your
well-being.”

On a power trip ………..;
... ego

On a shoestring 
Starting with nothing;

On a whim

On account of

On alert

On an on-going basis 
Continuing;

On bad terms with 
Not getting along because of bad feelings.

On bended-knee 
Proposing marriage or begging forgiveness or a favor
while kneeling on one knee

On easy street 
Living well; making easy money; having success with
little effort; having everything you need without having
to do much for it.

On good terms with 
Having good relations with; getting along well with.

On hold 
Postponed for a while.

On ice 
Suspended; pending; on the back burner; on hold.

On impulse 
On the spur of the moment; without thinking; on a whim.

On its last legs 
About to collapse;

On my honor 
Honestly;

On pins and needles 
Excited;

On purpose 
Deliberately; intentionally; …

On rare occasions 
Only rarely.

On second thought 
After considering carefully.

On speaking terms 
Having a friendly and cordial relationship with.

On the brink of 
Approaching; coming near to; getting ready to; about to;
on the point of; on the verge of. “The world is approaching the brink of disaster and will soon come to an end if
the use of fossil fuel is not soon drastically reduced.”
Due to bad management investments, Eco Company is
on the brink of bankruptcy.” “Terrorists are on the brink
of acquiring the technology to carry out germ warfare
attacks.”

On the button 
Exactly right; hit the nail on the head; right on.

On the carpet 
In trouble; called up to be questioned before your boss;

On the dole 
Out of a job and receiving unemployment insurance payments from the public welfare service. “Why should I go
back to work, when I can live on the dole for the next
three months?” “I paid unemployment insurance premiums for twenty-five years before I was made redundant,
and I feel no regrets for living off the dole. That’s what 
the plan was designed for.” “Some unethical people take
advantage of working only as long as they need to in order to be eligible for unemployment insurance, and then
they quit their jobs and live off the dole for as long as
they can. If everybody did that, the social welfare system
would break down.”

On the dot 
Exactly on time; sharp to the minute; punctually; not a
minute early or a minute late. “I want you to pick me up
at twelve o’clock sharp, on the dot, not a minute early or
a minute late.” “I arrived at the office at eight AM sharp
exactly on the dot for work.” “I always arrive a bit early
for an appointment, so I can be sure that I am there and
ready to meet the client exactly on the dot.”

On the dotted-line 
The place at the bottom of the contract where you have to
sign your name on the dotted line.

On the double 
At twice the normal pace (as in military marching); at
double the expected speed; right away; immediately; instantly; at once; fast; quickly. “All right, you men, forward march on the double.” “Go and pick-up the express
package, on the double.” “Get this message out to the
client on the double.” “I’d better get back to my desk on
the double in case anyone misses me.” “Complete this
task on the double or you’ll be in big trouble.”

On the down side 
The disadvantages on the one side;

On the fence 
Cannot yet decide one way or the other; still neutral, unbiased, impartial in position; waiting to choose which
way to go; sitting on the fence watching to see which
side is preferable.” “I’m sitting on the fence at the moment and cannot yet decide whether to vote for the liberals or the conservatives.” “We’re still sitting on the fence
regarding the decision to pay a stock dividend in spite of
low profits.”

On the fly 
On the run; in a hurry.

On the fringe 
Not at the center but on the outside edge of the circle; on
the outer margin; on the periphery. “Politically, I am not
at the center of conservatism but on the outside edge of
liberal activism.” “Salvador Dali was not a member of
any artistic movement but on the fringe of a surrealistic
world of his own.” “Some times I do believe that I am on
the fringe of madness or maybe even beyond the fringe.”

On the go 
Busy; always active;

On the grapevine 
News gets around according to gossip, or, on the grapevine, as they say. “I heard on the grapevine that you are
pregnant again. Is that true?” “We heard on the grapevine
that our chairman’s days were numbered.” “Word on the
grapevine has it that you are going to resign and take on
a better job at higher pay. Is that so?”

On the gravy train 
In a position in which the money keeps flowing in. 

On the house 
Free, wit no charge compliments of the management. …

On the hush 
Without telling anyone

On the lam 
Running from the law; hiding out…

On the level 
Fair, equal and honest.

On the loose

On the make
Looking for a sexual partner.

On the mend

On the move

On the nose

On the one hand

On the quiet 
Secretly, without telling anybody about it.

On the rebound

On the same 

On the shelf 
Set aside or postponed for the moment.

On the side 
A little sex outside the main relationship. “men who like
to have extra-marital relations on the side are not good
examples of family values.” *

On the sly 
To do something secretly, behind the backs of others, so
that no one will know, usually with bad motives or intentions; deviously, surreptitiously. “He was telling the
manager, on the sly, about all the secrets of office gossip.” “He was giving insider information to the competition, on the sly, to get some extra money.” “He was seeing another woman on the sly for twenty years and his
wife never found out about it.”

On the spot

On the spur of the moment

On the square 
Honest and on the level; fair and honorable.

On the suspicion of 
Accused of

On the take 
Taking bribes or kickbacks or illegal money

On the threshold of

On the tip of my tongue 
Not quite able to remember but just about to say or state

On the trail 
Following someone

On the upswing 
The curve is improving upwards.

On the verge of 
Nearing the point of; on the edge of; approaching; coming close to; on the threshold of; on the brink of. “Modern medical research is on the verge of discovering a cure
for heart failure.” “The firm is now on the verge of going
public and offering stock shares on the market.” “I am in
the verge of a nervous breakdown because of the constant pressure of tax deadlines at the office.”

On the wagon 
Not drinking any alcohol.

On the wrong side of the law.
Acting criminally; against the law. 

On thin ice 
… dangerously …

On top of the world 
Happy and so successful that things could not be better.

On track 
On the right path according to plan

On your best behavior 
Being careful not todo anything wrong.

On your guard

On your honor

On your last legs 
Using your last ounce of strength; running out of power;
no longer able to struggle; ready to give-up.

On your own 
All alone; with no one to help you;

On your side

On your word

Once bitten, twice shy 
If a person has been hurt in first love, he/she will be more
hesitant the next time he/she takes a chance on love. “After Cynthia’s divorce, it took her years to even look at or
get close to another man. You know the expression,
‘Once bitten twice shy.’” “After I got divorced from my
wife at age twenty-three, I just fooled-around with a lot
of other women, for about ten years, without making a
serious commitment. There must be some truth in the
saying, ‘Once bitten twice shy.’” “Once bitten, twice shy
also applies to business ventures. If you have been
cheated once, you will be twice as careful the next time
you attempt to make a deal.”

Once in a blue moon 
Rarely; infrequently; seldom; very occasionally; not often; once in a while; from time to time. “Only once in a
blue moon do we see the holy man appear from his
cave.” “Only once in a blue moon will you ever see me
take an alcoholic drink.” “The celebrated movie star,
Carey Cherry, would only ever consent to give an interview once in a blue moon.” “Only once in a blue moon
do we ever see a blue moon.”.”

Once the word gets out

One foot in the grave 
Half-dead

One for the road 
One more drink before going home.

One good turn deserves another.

One hand washes the other
Two are necessary in order to help one another; work
together in synchronization; can’t do one thing without
having the other; similar to the idea that “I scratch your
back; you scratch my back.”

One of these days 
Someday, sooner or later.

One step at a time 
One thong at a time, one after another.

One step forward and two steps back

One thing leads to another

One too many
One drink beyond your level of tolerance; drunk from …

One track mind 
Only thinking about one thing; “You men are all the 
same. You’ve got a one track mind.”

One way or another 
Somehow;

One way street 
Just as a roar may be open to traffic only from one direction, so in a human situation where …

One-after-another 
In sequence…

One-by-one 
One after the other.

One-on one 
Face to face

One-sided 
Unfair; prejudiced; weighted to one side; not balanced.
“There are two sides to every argument. If you listen to
only one side, you get an imbalanced, one-sided view.”
One-tracked-mind Obsession with only one thing; a compulsive fixation on
one subject. “Men are all the same. They’ve got a onetrack- mind.”

One-upmanship 
Trying to show that you are better than others;
Only a handful A few; not very many; a small number; a small percentage of the whole. “Almost all the passengers in the airline disaster of flight 629 died in the crash, and only a
handful survived.” “Only a handful of those who graduated in the class of 1902, still living.” “Only a handful of
the men in my regiment survived until the end of the
war.” “Only a handful of cases, do patients diagnosed
with congestive heart failure survive for more than six
years.”

Only kidding Just joking

Only scratching the surface

On-the-quiet 
Secretly; so no one notices; without telling anyone; without anyone knowing; on the sly. “Bob and Carol and Ted
and Alice used to meet, on the quiet, and trade sexual
partners without anybody else knowing about it.” “The
board members decreased the amount of the proposed
shareholder’s dividend secretly, on-the-quiet, so that no
one would be able to complain.” “Politicians often make
confidential alliances, on the quiet, as a means to increasing their sphere of influence power base and power
base.”

Onto a good thing

Oodles and oodles of money
Lots of money; loads and loads;

Oozing-with-charm

Open fire

Open and shut case

Open book

Open doors (verb)

Open house

Open invitation

Open question 
Dubious; undecided; not yet answered; still to be resolved. 

Open season 
Just as in some countries you can only hunt certain animals in certain seasons, so

Open secret 
Common knowledge; something that should be kept
hush-hush, but everybody knows.

Open to criticism

Open to the topic 
Ready and willing to discuss it. “The chairman said he
was open to the topic and willing to discuss it.”

Open up 
Justas you may be knocking and asking someone to open
up the door, so you may …

Open up and confess 
Open up your heart and admit what you did wrong.

Open up and spill the beans.

Open-hearted

Open-minded

Opportune moment 
The appropriate or right moment; when the opportunity
presents itself; the moment when good fortune arises.

Opportunistic person

Opportunity knocks 
The opportunity of a lifetime suddenly opens up.

Opposite number 
Wife or husband; partner.

Opt for 
Choose the option that you prefer

Opt out 
Choose the option to drop out

Opt-out

Order people around 
Be bossy, telling everyone what to do; …

Orders are orders.

Other-worldly 
Intellectually or imaginatively in another realm beyond
this world.

Ounce of prevention … ; 
“An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.”

Our neck of the woods 
In our part of the region; where we come from; the place
where we grew up and are still, now living. “In our neck
of the woods we brew our own whiskey and are suspicious of all strangers, especially ones who look like government tax officials.”

Oust from office 
Kick out of an elected position;

Out and about 
No longer confined to bed, but able to get out and move
about; after recovery, standing up and walking about; no
longer confined or restricted to home but able to go out
of the house and get about town. “Granny’s condition is
improving rapidly, and after three months of bed rest, she
is now able to get out and about.” “I hope you recover
from your illness and hope to see you out and about very
soon.” “I was confined to my bed in the hospital for four
months after my car accident, but with time, I began to
recuperate and at least get out of bed and walk about the
ward.” “I was so weak that I couldn’t even leave my bed
and move around the house, but now after my heart
transplant,, I am able to get out and about and go downtown now and again.”

Out in the open 
Unprotected fro all sides 

Out like a light 
Out cold; knocked out

Out of cash/ money 
Broke; penniless with no money.

Out of character 
Untypical of one’s behavior

Out of control 
Controlled

Out of danger 
Safe and sound

Out of harm’s way 
In a safe place

Out of line 
Inappropriate social behavior

Out of luck 
No chance

Out of nowhere 
Suddenly and unexpectedly

Out of proportion 
To blow up something to be bigger than the surrounding
circumstances.

Out of range 
Too far away to hit as a target

Out of sight out of mind 
If you don’t see a person for some time, you may think of
him less-frequently; if someone goes away to another
town, you may lose contact and closeness and drift apart.
“Nina forgot about me when I went away to college and
because I was out of sight and out of mind, she soon married my best friend Garth.” “A husband and wife should
live together in the same home; if the wife is out of sight,
she may soon be out of mind and the husband may start
playing around with other women.’ */

Out of the blue 
All of a sudden; unexpectedly; all at once; without warning; as though from out of nowhere. “I was just driving
along the road when, unexpectedly, out to the blue, a
dead duck fell onto the windshield of my car.” “Delbert
had been looking unsuccessfully for work for three years
when, suddenly, out of the blue, he got a job offer from
IBM.” “The girl scouts were hiking along the path when,
without prior warning, out of the blue, a big brown grizzly bear arose up before them.”

Out of the picture

Out of touch 
Not up to date with the circumstances.

Out of the way places 
… far off the beaten track

Out of the woods 
Clear of the dangerous part; past the worst; out of a situation in which you are lost and confused and discouraged
about how to get out of trouble. “Being lost in the forest
and not finding your way out, can be compared to working your way through technical difficulties or out of a
critical personal, political or business problem.” “The
company was losing money in the third quarter last year,
but after implementing cost cuts, , we are now out of the
woods and hope to show a profit by the end of the year.”
“We feared that we would not be able to meet our sales
quota, but we are now out of the woods and working
twenty percent above budget

Out of the woodwork 
Suddenly appearing from all sides, like worms out of the
baseboards around the floor of a room.

Out of this world 
Unimaginably wonderful. 

Out of whack 
Misaligned; non-functional; out of line; out of order.

Out of your element 
In a place or position you are not accustomed to.

Out of your mind 
Crazy; mad; out of your senses; insane

Out of your skull 
Crazy; mad; nutty; mentally insane; psychologically disordered; totally out of your head. “You must be out of
your skull to suggest such a crazy idea. It’s totally over
the top.” “When Prof. Leary used to take LSD back in
the sixties, people said he was out of his skull” “Willie
Hipster used to sometimes believe that he was a divine
god, come to save the world, but the truth was that he
was only a nut-case.” You must be totally out of your
skull to even suggest that we disrobe in the middle of the
Church service.”

Out on a limb 
Just as when you are up in a tree and out on a limb and in
danger of falling down, so you can say you are going out
on a limb if you are taking a risk in order to help someone else “Why should I go out on a limb and risk my
neck to help you when I know that you are totally unreliable?”

Out stay your welcome 
Remain as a guest for longer than you are wanted.

Out to lunch 
A bit stupid; with no idea; not all there; not aware of
what is happening.

Out-foxed again! 
Out-smarted nonce more!

Out-in-the-open 
Unprotected; defenseless; helpless; vulnerable;

Out-of-commission 
Not operating; broken-down; not working; not functioning; out-of-order. “The slot machine was out-ofcommission, and I couldn’t get my money back.”;

Out-of-context 
Having nothing to do with the matter at hand; separated
from; in isolation from; individually.

Out-of-hand 
Out-of-control;

Out-of-harm’s-way 
Out-of-danger;

Out-of-hope 
Despairing;

Out-of-keeping 
Opposite of the usual behavior; not consistent with;

Out-of-kilter 
Not correctly-aligned; non-functional; out-of-order; not
balanced right; broken down.

Out-of-order 
Not functioning; broken; not working right.

Out-of-sorts 
In a bad mood; not feeling well

Out-of-step 
Not following the accepted norm; non-conformist;

Out-of-sync 
Not progressing in a synchronized-order; unsynchronized; not working according to plan; not functioning in
the proper technological sequence; not in step with; not
working together. “The technical systems are still a little
bit out of sync, so we will need time to make a few adjustments before starting the launch.” “I’ve got the items
on my agenda all mixed-up and out of sync, so let me
rearrange the sequence before we send out the memo.”
“The sound system on my TV is a little bit out of sync,
so you can see a fraction of a second of delay between 
the lip-movements of the speaker in the picture and the
voice sound that follows.”

Out-of-the-ordinary 
Extra-special

Out-of-the-picture 
Not quite present; not in the know.

Out-of-the-question 
Not possible

Out-of-the-running

Out-of-this-world

Out-of-time

Out-of-touch 
Not in contact. “I have been out-of-touch with my uncle
since he changed addresses.” */ “Crazy people are said
to be out-of-touch with reality.”

Out-of-whack 
Out-of-order;

Out-of-your-element 
In unfamiliar surroundings; …

Out-of-your-hair 
Get rid of someone who is an annoyance (like a bat in
your hair);

Out-of-your-mind 
So crazy that you’ve got the wrong idea. “You must be
out of your mind to think that I would ever go out with
you.” “

Outrageous action 
Disgraceful, shocking, shameful deed.

Out-to-lunch 
Not all there; a bit crazy; not all there; with no idea
what’s going on; can’t think straight. “Don’t bother asking Carrie for an opinion. She’s a bit out to lunch and
won’t even understand the question.” …

Outward appearance 
How one looks from the outside.

Outward-going 
Extraverted;

Out-witted 
Out-smarted

Over a barrel 
Helpless; unable to make a move to help yourself.

Over my dead body

Over my head 
Too difficult for me to understand.

Over the hill 
Very old; past retirement age; no able to do much useful any more

Over the hump 
Over the most difficult part.

Over the moon 
So elated!

Over the top 
Too exaggerated

Overbearing manner 
Domineering; arrogant;

Overdo it 
Go too far; go to excess; do too much; do more than is
needed or appropriate.

Over-exert yourself

Overindulge yourself 
Eat or drink to excess; overdo it; go to excess.

Over-indulgent

Overkill 
Excessive defensive response;

Over-my- dead-body 
You will have to kill me first.

Over-react

Overstep-the-bounds

Overstep-the-mark 
Go too far; exceed the limits of propriety; go beyond
what is considered decent behavior.

Over-the-barrel 
Just as someone who is tied over-a-barrel is in a helpless 
position to protect himself from a lashing, so we often
say we are over a barrel when we are not in a position to
help ourselves or others. “ …

Over-the-hill 
Too old to work or be useful any more.

Over-the-hump 
Over the peak; over the hardest part.

Over-the-top 
In excess of usual expectation; much too much; more
than is normal or proper; going too far; beyond the
bounds of propriety; to the extreme; excessive; exaggerated;. “I know Shelia likes to appear ultra-fashionable,
but her turning up at the conference with purple hair was
totally over-the-top.” “I know that Slick likes to show off
his money, but I thought his buying a pink-colored RollsRoyce was a bit over the top.” “Although my husband
encourages me to exercise my freedom, he thought that
my attending the memorial ceremony in a see-through
blouse was going too far, absolutely over-the-top.”

Own-up-to 
Confess guilt; admit that you did it; tell the truth.

Pack it in 
Quit; stop; give it up

Pack rat 
Someone who runs with the crowd, especially the wrong
sort of crowd.

Pack up and go

Packed-in like sardines

Pad the bill 
Just as a packing case may be padded with extra…. So an
unscrupulous … may add false expenses to increase …

Padded-cell

Padding the accounts 
Adding extra hidden-costs to accounts in order to pocket
the difference; …

Paddle your backside

Paddy wagon 
Police van for picking up wrongdoers and transporting
them to the station. “Old Malone was picked up by the
paddy wagon again and charged with being drunk and
disorderly.” …

Pain-in-the-neck 
A nuisance.

Painstaking effort 
Paying careful, diligent and perseverant attention to
reaching a goal.

Paint a picture 
Just as an artist can paint a picture, so an speaker or
writer can be said to be painting a picture by putting
ideas ans images in the minds of others. “ …paints a
grim picture

Paint the town red 
Go out and spend a lot of money and have a good time in
the city.

Paint yourself into a corner

Pales in comparison to 
Seems like nothing when compared to…

Palm-off-on 
To hand over an unwanted job or responsibility or thing
to someone else; to trick someone into taking over what
you do not want.

Paltry sum 
Insignificant amount to pay

Pang of conscience

Panic- stricken 
Just as a herd of goats may be stuck by terror and fright
and run, scattering in all directions, so we may say that
people are panic-stricken when …

Paper thin

Paper tiger 
Appears strong but is not

Paper trail

Par for the course 
Just about what can be expected.

Parade-up-and-down 
Show something or someone off pretentiously and ostentatiously.

Parrot someone’s words 
Repeat everything someone says word for word;

Part and parcel

Part company

Part of the problem

Partial to 
Have a liking for someone;

Party-pooper 
Killjoy; wet blanket; someone who spoils the party for
others because he will not join in the fun.

Pass a bum check 
To pretend to pay someone by issuing a bad check, when
there is actually not enough money in the account to
cover payment; to write a check fraudulently and knowingly give it to someone, even though you know the bank
will not accept it; to write a check that will “bounce” due
to lack of funds. “Before he left town, Slim passed a bum
check to the landlord for overdue rent.” “In some countries, you can go to jail for passing a bum check.” “Many
hotels accept only cash or credit cards to avoid the possibility of guests passing them bum checks.”

Pass judgment

Pass muster 
Measure-up to expectation; pass inspection; satisfy quality standards. “Just as the troops may be lined-up to pass
muster or inspection, so a …

Pass the buck 
Place the blame on someone else; say someone else is
responsible; let someone else do it; let another person do
the job; say it’s not your duty to act;. “Don’ pass the
buck and try to put the blame on someone else. Be a man
and say you made a mistake.” “Politicians are always
trying to pass the buck and blame others for their own
blunders.” “I hate to pass the buck like this but I’m afraid
I won’t have time to make the presentation and I’d like
you to do it for me”

Pass up an opportunity

Passed-over 

Passing fancy

Passing remark 
A casual comment made without thinking.

Passive resistance

Pass-the-hat 
Collect money; accept donations;

Past the blossom of youth 
Getting older.

Past your peak 
Not as good as you once were; no longer capable of performing as you did when you were at your best; past the
prime time in your life or career; over the hill; too old to
cut the mustard anymore

Pat on the back 
Gesture of congratulations.

Pat on the head 
In western culture to place one’s hand gently on the head
of a child or an equal is a sign of affection or praise and
recognition. ….congratulation

Patch-up 
Settle differences; reconcile a conflict; resolve a disagreement; kiss and make-up; to become friends again;
forgive and forget; let bygones be bygones. “Mom and
Dad almost got divorced, just after I was born, but luckily for me, they patched-up their difference and managed
to make the marriage work.” “Chuck and his girlfriend,
Natalie, had a fight on Friday night, but by Saturday afternoon they had patched-things-up, kissed-and-made-up
and things were all lovey-dovey again.” “China and Taiwan were holding talks to try to patch up their differences regarding the question of Taiwan’s proposed independence.”

Patronizing attitude 
Condescending way of viewing and addressing somebody;

Patsy 
Someone to take advantage of and lay the blame upon;
fall-guy;

Pave the way for

Pay dirt 
Sudden wealth and success;

Pay homage to

Pay lip-service to

Pay one’s dues 
Spend time in service before gaining higher rank and
privilege.

Pay peanuts 
Pay little money; pay low salary/wages.

Pay the consequences

Pay the piper 
Pay for your bad behavior; face the results of your actions; make recompense for the wrong you have done;
take your punishment; make up for your bad deeds.
“You’ve been drinking too much whiskey and acting like
a fool and, now, its time to pay the piper.” “My dear boy,
we have put up with your bad behavior long enough and
have decided that it is time for you to pay the piper.”
“You may get away with your bad deeds for a while, but
sooner or later, it will be time to pay the piper.”

Pay through the nose 
Pay up now in hard cash or else miss the opportunity;
pay an over-expensive price; cost an arm and a leg; overpriced; pay at bloodsucker prices. “If you want to have
your home decorated by a well-known interior decorator
who is much in demand, you’ll have to pay through the
nose.” “You can go to an inexpensive, government hospital and wait six hours to see a doctor, or you can go to a
private hospital and pay through the nose to see a specialist immediately.” “If you want to buy tickets for tonight’s football game, you’ll have to pay through the
nose at jacked-up, sky-high scalper prices.”

Pay your last respects

Payback 
Revenge

Paying-off 
Finally beginning to show results or benefits or profits.

Peace of mind

Peace offering

Peak of insolence

Peak of success

Pearls of wisdom
Words of wisdom; wise quotations

Peck away at 
Eat like a bird

Pecking order 
Just as chickens have …

Peeping Tom

Peer pressure

Pelting down 
Falling heavily. “The rain was pelting down so heavily
that …

Pencil-pusher 
Someone who works in an office checking things.

Penny-pincher 
Someone who is very stingy; frugal; will not spend even
a penny; tries to save every cent; be miserly; be a cheapskate. “Scotsmen may be careful in the way they spend
money, but the idea that they are supposed to be penny
pinchers is a highly exaggerated stereotype.” “Don’t be
such a penny pincher and buy yourself some new socks
and underwear once in while.” “I have a miserly old uncle, called Scrooge who lives on tea and toast because he
is so stingy he will not even spend money to eat a healthy
diet.”

Pensioned-off

Pent-up emotions

People power

People will get the wrong idea.

Pep talk 
A speech intended to inspire enthusiasm and morale.

Perish the thought!
God forbid! I shudder to think! I tremble to think!

Perjure yourself 
Lie before a court of justice.

Perk-up your ears 
Raise attentively;

Personal grudge

Personal prejudice

Perverse individual 
Someone whose intentions are directed away from the
good; 

Perversion of the good

Pester someone for something
.. ;….pester to death

Pet peeve 
Favorite complaint

Peter-out

Petrified with fear 
Just as trees vegetable materials can be petrified and
turned into stone, so we sat we are absolutely petrified
when we are really afraid.

Petty-minded

Pick a quarrel 
Purposely start an argument or verbal fight.

Pick and choose

Pick apart

Pick away at 
Just as one may pick away chips at a rock using a sharp
tool, so we can say that … criticism

Pick holes in someone’s argument
Criticize and pick to pieces;

Pick of the litter 
Just as one might be free to choose the best puppy from a
new-born litter, so in life one might ….

Pick on someone

Pick someone’s brains

Pick up the hint

Pick up the tab 
For one person take and pay the restaurant or bar bill for
everyone at the table; pay for someone who can’t pay for
himself; pay someone’s bill in order to help. “Let me get
this. I’ll pick up the tab because it is my birthday.” “Jeffrey always picked up the bar tab because Lefty never
had any money of his own.” “Uncle Arthur always picks
up the tab when he takes me out to dinner because he
knows I’m only a student and don’t have very much
money.”

Pick up where you left
Start up from where you stopped the last time you were
working on something.

Pick-me-up 
A drink supposedly taken for refreshment, usually alcoholic;

Picky and choosy

Pie in the sky 
Something that people only dream about but could never
attain in reality; a hopeless goal or ambition; an impossible fantasy; a scheme that could fulfill all your greatest
desires but which has no basis in actuality. “Father spent
all of his life trying to fulfill his pie in the sky schemes,
and never succeeded in achieving any of his hopes and
dreams.” “Stop talking all that pie in the sky bullshit and
come down to earth and take a good, hard look at the
harsh reality of life.” “The problem with pie in the sky
Utopian dreams is that they are based on the false premise that man in nature has an innate, inborn desire to do
the good.”

Piece of advice 

Piece of cake

Piece of my mind

Piece things together 
Put the facts together so you can figure out;

Piece work 
Work in which you are paid by the piece rather than by
the hour or day.

Pigeon hole 
Categorize; file;

Pig-headed 
Stubborn;

Pilfer the till 
Steal from the cash register.

Pinch-hit for 
Go to bat for someone

Pink of health 
Best condition … ;

Pink slip 
Dismissal notice from the company;

Pinpoint the problem … ; 
put your finger on;

Pint-sized 
Small;

Pipe down 
Be quiet;

Pipe dream

Pipsqueak 
Small, insignificant person; … “Listen, you little pipsqueak, if you don’t get out of here right now’ I’ll …

Pissing into the wind

Pit against 
Just as they used to put a slave in the Roman arena to
fight against a lion, so we can say that we pit someone
against a stronger rival.

Pitch dark

Pitch-in for someone

Pith of the matter 
The central issue; what is at the core of the question.

Pitter-patter of little feet 
The sound of little children running around.

Place in the sun
People from England and cold countries like Sweden or
Finland sometimes dream of being someplace in the sun
to warm the chill from their bones. “

Plagued-to-death

Play along with 
Cooperate to avoid conflict for your own benefit;

Play around on someone 
Cheat in the game of love.

Play cat and mouse

Play dirty tricks

Play down the importance of

Play favorites

Play hard to get

Play hooky 
Skip classes; play truant; avoid going to school. “I remember on day when I was a kid, I played hooky and hid
in a garbage bin all afternoon.”

Play it by ear 
Speak spontaneously; off-the-cuff; decide what to say as
you go along; ad lib; make it up as you go; act on the
spur of the moment; pretend you are prepared so it looks
like you know what you are doing; improvise as you are
talking; shoot from the hip. “I had no time to prepare my
presentation before the meeting so I had to play it by ear
as I went along.” “Sometimes when you are in an un-
known situation and don’t know exactly what to do or
say, you have to play it by ear.” “Just as a musician
sometimes has to play a song by ear without any sheet
music to read, so a good manager must improvise as he
speaks and plays his role and hope that it sounds all
right.”

Play it cool

Play it safe

Play it straight 
Tell the truth and do what is correct.

Play musical chairs 
Just a s children play a game in which … “Human resources is doing a personnel shuffle, getting some staff
members to move from one chair to another and getting
rid of some others in the company to cut costs and improve efficiency.” “Cabinet Ministers in the government
often play musical chairs when the prime minister is
forced to get rid of some and move some of the others
from post to post,”

Play on words Pun;

Play the field 
Date different people until you find the right one.

Play the fool

Play the game

Play the hand you’re dealt
Make the best with what you have (as in playing a hand
of cards); deal with your possibilities and face your life
the way it is without wishing your circumstances were
better. “You may have been born poor with no chance at
a good education, but you have to play the hand you are
dealt and try to get by in the best way you can.” “It does
no good to complain about the cards that fate has dealt
you. Play with the hand that you are dealt.” “Sometimes,
even when the odds are against you, you have to play
with the cards in the hand that you are dealt. Sometimes
if you bluff your way cleverly through, you may even
win.”

Play your cards right

Playing hard to get 
Pretending you don’t like a person (usually of the opposite sex) when you actually do; to be coy or capricious;
acting as if you don’t want to do a thing or a job or accept a person when you actually do;

Playing with fire

Pledge of allegiance …. 
Pledge of donation….. Pledge of honor

Plenty of other fish in the sea
Lots of others where that came from.

Plenty of perks 
Many benefits

Plodding-on

Plugging away at

Plunged into darkness

Poignant moment 
Emotional, touching, moving experience

Point blank range 
Direct and immediate; 

Point of contact

Point of contention

Point the finger at someone

Place blame

Poke fun at 
Tease or make fun of someone

Poke your nose into someone’s business

Poker-faced 
Showing absolutely no expression in one’s face, so no
one can see or know what one is feeling, thinking, anticipating or expecting (especially when playing a poker
game, to avoid the others being able to guess if you are
holding a good hand of cards). “The gambler kept a
poker face so no one would be able to guess that he was
holding four aces and would surely win the bet on that
hand.” “The Croatian President remained poker-faced
throughout the debate, so no one would know what he
was thinking.” “The serial killer showed no sign of remorse or emotion during trial proceedings and kept a
poker face throughout.

Polish-off a whole bottle 
Finish drinking down a whole bottle of an alcoholic beverage;

Pompous ass 
Arrogant fool; self-important person; haughty; full of
himself

Ponder the question

Pooh-pooh
Scorn; spurn; scoff at; put down; look down your nose at;
show contempt for. “Please don’t pooh-pooh my proposal until you hear me out and take some time to consider it.”

Pool resources

Pooped-out

Poor as a church mouse 
Since is there normally no food in a Church …

Poor stiff 
Poor guy! “Sometimes we call an unfortunate person a
‘poor stiff’ using the comparison of as stiff as a corpse.

Pop by sometime.

Pop the bubble 
Prick the balloon; shatter an illusion;

Pop the question 
Ask someone to marry you

Poppycock 
Nonsense; foolishness; rubbish. “What a lot of poppycock. Why don’t you try making some sense sometimes?” “Talk straight and don’t give me a lot of poppycock.” 

Post haste 
Quickly; at once;

Pot calling the kettle black
One thing is as bad as another;

Pot-bellied 
Having a plump or fat stomach that appears in shape, like
the bottom of a pot (or pot bellied stove) from eating too
much soup or fatty food from the pot. When a man’s
belly sticks out, so he looks three to four months pregnant, we say he’s “pot-bellied.” “My dad has got a pot 
belly from drinking too much beer.” “After he turned
forty, Budd developed a pot belly that stayed with him
for life.” “People who eat too much pudding become potbellied.”

Potboiler 
A long novel and poorly-written novel;

Potential hazard

Potluck dinner

Pounce-at-the-chance

Pound it into your thick skull

Pound-it-into-your-head

Pour cold water on something

Pouring it on a bit thick 
Loading someone with compliments so that it becomes a
bit too much.

Powder keg 
Explosive situation;

Power play ……. ;
... the power hungry… power play to take over the government

Power politics

Powwow Just as 
Indian chiefs used to sit around the fire having a
meeting, council or powwow, so we can say that a meeting of chiefs or managers or important people are sitting
down to discuss an important decision.;

Practical joke

Practice makes perfect

Practice what you preach.

Prattle-on 
Chatter-on and talk a lot of blithering nonsense. “I wish
Auntie Maude would stop talking so much. She doesn’t
realize how annoying it can be when someone just keeps
prattling-on all day long.”

Preconceived-notion 
An anticipation based on false expectation; a fixed, inflexible. Pre-determined opinion. “When you base your
expectations on preconceived notions, you are bound to
be disappointed.”

Preferential treatment

Prejudiced-opinion 
A falsely pre-conceived opinion too heavily weighted to
one side; biased; intolerant; bigoted; discriminatory; narrow-minded. “ …

Presence of mind

Press on 
Continuing to struggle; don’t give up; keep trying hard to
do your best. “Don’t let yourself become discouraged.
Press on relentlessly until you have reached your goal.”
“We cannot give up hope now. We must press on despite
any obstacles we may encounter.” “In this life, struggle
never ends, and you’ll have to continue to press on, even
when you know you have passed your peak.

Pressed-for-time

Preventive action …. 
Preventive measures Preventive measures …. Preventive medicine

Primal instinct

Primary purpose

Prime time 
The best time to do something; the time to seize the moment; when the most people are watching, looking or listening. “This is the prime time to …

Probable cause

Probe into the matter

Problem-child

Proceed at your own peril

Proceed with 
Means that someone will take the next step in the process
of preparing to finish a task. “Please sign the document
giving us the power of attorney to proceed with the process of registration on your behalf.” “Once we have received the requested documents, we can proceed in preparing your annual audit report.” “After you have provided all the required documents, the Immigration Department may proceed in processing your application for
a work permit.”

Prod into action 
Prod or goad someone to

Prohibitive costs

Prolong the agony

Prompt action

Propound your ideas 
Propose, put forward, advocate or explain your thinking.
“Let me propound some of my ideas to the committee to
see what you think of them.”

Prospects look grim 
Expectations for the future do not look good.

Prostrate yourself 
Just as one used to have to prostrate oneself before an
emperor or king by going down on all fours, lying flat
down, face to the ground, so, nowadays, we say figuratively that we have to prostrate ourselves when we have
to humble ourselves and beg the boss or the wife to fulfill
a special favor.

Provoking manner

Prudish attitude 
Prim and proper view of what it is sexually improper to do.

Pry into someone’s affairs

Psyched-up

Public announcement

Public servant

Pucker-up

Puke your guts out 
Vomit everything up out of your stomach; throw up your meal;

Pull a fast one

Pull a hoax

Pull a job 

Pull a prank

Pull a rabbit out of a hat.

Pull a trick

Pull it off

Pull out all stops 
Use every effort;

Pull rank on someone

Pull someone’s leg

Pull strings 
Just as puppeteers pull strings to get their … so ….take
advantage of special connections with people in high
places to achieve your end.

Pull the plug on 
Just as you pull the plug to let out the bath water, so …

Pull the rug out from under someone

Pull the wool over someone’s eyes

Pull through Survive;

Pull to pieces

Pull up stakes

Pull with all your might

Pull your belt in a notch

Pull your punches 
Soften the words or blows of your statements or criticisms

Pull yourself together

Pull yourself up by your
bootstraps

Pull-up your sox 
Improve your behavior; begin to make a better effort;
stop being obviously negligent; do what is expected of
you; do what is proper; clean up your act. “Just as a
teacher has to tell a schoolboy to pull up his sox so that
he looks proper, so a superior has sometimes to tell an
employee under his supervision to pull up his sox, figuratively, in order to follow regulations.” “Mr. Cole, the district superintendent, told Mr. Fox to pull up his sox or he
would be thrown out.” “I’d better pull up my sox and
start to follow orders or I’ll soon find myself out on my
ear.”

Punch-drunk

Punitive action

Puppet government

Puppy love

Pure as the driven snow

Push back the clock

Push back the dark clouds

Push people around

Push somebody’s buttons 
Touch on a person’s psychological sore-point just for the
pleasure of to provoking him into a strong emotional re-
action. “Don’t be angry with me for touching on the topic
of your sexual preference. I was just pushing your buttons.” “When two perverse neurotics get together they
push one another’s buttons.” “If you want to throw Perkins off his balance at the meeting, you can just start
pushing hid buttons.”

Push someone to

Push the panic button 
Just as there might be an alarm-button to push in the case
of a national emergency to warm people against danger,
so a person may be said to push the panic button when
something unexpected happens and he goes into a state
of confusion and panic “The thermostat has just reached
the danger level, but don’t push the panic button.. Just
ease off the pressure slowly, until the needle begins to
lower down below the red mark on the dial.” “Darling,
the mortgage on our house is overdue, but don’t push the
panic button, just yet, because the bank manager has
agreed to allow us to refinance our loan.” “I have to inform you that your wife had a car accident and is in the
hospital, but don’t push the panic button. She survived
without a scratch.”

Push your luck

Push your weight around

Pushing the envelope

Pushing-up-daisies 
Dead and buried six feet under the ground and serving as
fertilizer for the flowers growing in the grass above. “I’m
going to pay you back for the harm you have done to me,
and I won’t be happy until you are six feet under the
ground pushing up daisies.” “By the time I located the
whereabouts of my father, he was already in the ground
pushing up daisies.” “The problem with becoming a father when you are over fifty is that by the time your child
becomes of college age, you’ll already be pushing up
daisies.”

Push-off

Pushover 
Someone good-hearted and/or weak who can be easily
talked into doing what you want; easy to convince; gives
in to pressure; readily agrees. “My Dad’s a pushover. He
is so soft at heart that, even when he disagrees, he lets me
do what I want.” “The assistant director is a pushover: he
can be talked into anything, but the director, himself, is
as stubborn as a mule.” “She’ll do anything that you
want. She’s a real pushover.”

Pushy-person 
Aggressive and demanding; throwing one’s weight
around;

Put behind bars 
Imprisoned; put in jail.

Put down an animal

Put in a good word for 
Recommend; 

Put in my two cents worth
Express your own humble opinion;

Put it on the line …; 
“I’m going to put it on the line. Either you do what I
say or you are fired!” “It’s about time I put it on the line.
Either you stop drinking or I am going to divorce you!”

Put it over on someone

Put it there! 
Shake my hand; I’ll shake on that; I agree with you; let’s
be friends...

Put me off my food 
Made me lose appetite; ….so disgusting, it puts me off
my appetite.

Put no stock in what he says.

Put on a brave face

Put on airs 
Pretend to be more than you are; to look down on others
because you think you are better.

Put on alert

Put on hold 
Just as one may be ‘put on hold’ when making a telephone call and have to wait until the connection can get
through, so a business plan or project may said to be ‘put
on hold’ if it is delayed or put-off for some reason. “The
East/West Canal Project was supposed to start last November, but, since the government lost the election, the
plan has been put on hold indefinitely.” …

Put on the back-burner 
Delayed until later; made lower in priority; put on hold.
“It looked like I was going to get a job on an oil platform
in the Persian Gulf, but, now unfortunately, the project
has been put on the back-burner.” …

Put on the breaks

Put on the dog 
Just as one might dress-up and groom a dog for a dog
show, you can dress-up and show yourself off at your
best to make others jealous and envious; make yourself
look better than you are and better than others. “Let’s get
all dolled-up, and put on the dog, and go downtown and
sit at the bar the Ritz Hotel and drink some cocktails, just
to make ourselves feel good.” “I hate the way that Eleanor is always putting on the dog and showing off her
jewelry in front in front of the other girls.”

Put on the shelf

Put on the spot

Put on your thinking cap 
Take a moment to use your brain

Put one over on 
Deceive someone with a trick.

Put out of your pain 
Mercy killing; to be put out of your misery

Put out the red carpet 
In trouble and called up for questioning.

Put out the welcome mat 
Many houses have a front-door mat with the word “welcome” written on it. This means that a guest is welcome.
In a broader sense; however, putting out the welcome
mat means making a lot of fuss and preparations to give a 
guest a big welcome ceremony, to the guest him feel
pleased, comfortable and glad to be there. “When the
Queen comes from England, the government puts on a
big reception to welcome her arrival.” “Let’s get ready to
put out the welcome mat, because our Grandmother Sally
is coming from Chicago for a few days to see the family.”

Put out to pasture 
Just as a horse on a farm will one day be put out to pasture just to graze and eat grass because it is too old to
work anymore, so a manager or executive may be said to
be put out t pasture when it is time for him to step-down
and leave responsibility up to others. “I may be sixtyfive, but I don’t want to be put out to pasture just yet, because I think I can still make a contribution to the company.” “When Grandfather was seventy, he was still
working as senior partner in our law firm, but, a year
later, he decided it was time for him to be put out to pasture and let his brother, Roger, take the reigns.” “When a
man is put out to pasture, against his will, and no longer
has anything to do anymore, he often becomes depressive
and his health begins to decline.”

Put some teeth into it 
Make stricter so people will obey.

Put someone on

Put someone on the spot 
In the spotlight and having to speak or answer immediately;

Put someone out of his misery

Put someone straight

Put someone up to something

Put the bite on someone 
Ask a person for money to help you out; to beg or borrow money for a dubious purpose;

Put the damper on 
Just as in a coal stove one can reduce the amount of air
inflow to decrease the heat, so …

Put the noose around your own neck

Put the record straight

Put through hell 
Made to go through an excruciating experience; made to
pass through agonizing and unbearable time; …

Put through the hoop 
Test strictly and severely; make them jump and perform
so-to-speak.

Put through the mill

Put to shame 
Made to feel embarrassment and humiliation in the eyes
of others.

Put two and two together

Put up or shut up! 
Place your money where your mouth is; make a bet;
don’t just keep talking about it.

Put up with 
Endure ….. patiently 

Put you in your place 
If someone forgets his (low) social position and mixes in
affairs that are above his rank and station, he will soon be
reminded where he belongs on the social ladder. “If you
speak out of turn to your superiors, you will soon be put
in your place.” “She started acting as though she was better than us, but we soon put her in her place.”

Put your affairs in order

Put your back into it

Put your best foot forward
Try to do your best to make a good impression; make
your best effort, so people will be impressed; demonstrate your skills and capabilities in the hope that this
helps you achieve your goal; try to make the right impression by doing what is expected. “I was very nervous
before the interview, but once I got into the room, I decided to put my best foot forward and give it my best
try.” “Sometimes you may lack confidence about your
capabilities, but if you just put your best foot forward and
do the best job you can, you will likely succeed.” “I was
a little intimidated about speaking with Lord Mountbatten, but, I put my best foot forward, and he was most
cordial towards me, so our conversation came-off quite
smoothly.”

Put your cards on the table

Put your foot down! 
Finally tell someone that you are fed up with his behavior and that he must stop.

Put your foot in your mouth
Say something stupid and out of place.

Put your heads together. 
Talk and think together and brainstorm in teamwork.

Put your lands in order 
Settle your estate.

Put your mind to rest

Put your money where your mouth is.
Do you want to bet?

Put-down a person 
To reject in an unconstructive, negative way; to abuse or
affront in an offensive manner; to insult in such a way as
to discourage any further approach or attempt. “I felt it to
be quite a put-down when they said my suggestion was
ridiculous.” “That was such a put-down, when she said
that she would never be interested in you as a sexual
partner.” “It was a real put-down when I only received
only three percent of the vote.”

Put-down an animal 
To have an animal put out of its misery; exterminated;
culled. “We had to have our boxer dog put down because
he kept biting people.” “They had to put down the fox
because it had rabies.” “Some animals have to be put
down to prevent the spread of infectious diseases.”

Put-off (appetite) 
To lose appetite or interest because of a negative impression. “I was put-off my dinner when they started talking 
about cleaning toilets.” “I wanted to study geography at
first, but I was put-off by the idea of having to draw
maps for the next four years.” “I liked him at first, but I
was put-off by his use of bad language.”

Put-off (action) 
To postpone to a later time; to hesitate in making a decision; to wait until later to do something necessary.
“Don’t put off to tomorrow what you can do today.” “We
put-off making the decision until the next meeting.” “I
need to visit my grandmother, but I’ll have to put it off to
a later date when I am not so busy.”

Puts me off

Putting on an act

Put-up with 
To have to endure and bear something unpleasant;

Put-up with something for long enough
Become fed-up

Quack doctor 
Someone who practices medicine without a license or a
doctor that uses non-standard, questionable medical
techniques. ……..quack medicine……quack doctor

Quaint expression

Quaking in your boots 
Full of fear so that your knees are knocking and your feet
are shaking in your shoes. “The hostages just stood there,
quaking in their boots, as the terrorists shot and killed a
helpless old man in a wheelchair.” “When the preacher
stated that God was angry with the congregation because
they were all sinners, and that He was going to crush
them so that their blood bespattered His robes, they sat
and stared in astonishment, quaking in their boots.”
When I was ten, and I knew that my father was mad at
me and would give me a licking when he got home from
work, I waited in my room for the inevitable moment,
quaking in my boots.”

Quality over quantity 
Better to have high quality than just a large quantity.

Qualms and reservations 
Feeling doubts, fears, misgivings and uncertainties.

Quarrelsome

Quash a rebellion 
Suppress and put down.

Quaver with fear 
Quiver from weakness

Queasy stomach 
Nauseous; unsettled in the stomach; ill and uneasy; just
plain worried-sick about something.

Queer duck 
Strange fellow;

Queer the deal 
Do something to make a deal or agreement go wrong;
botch-up an business deal; screw up the deal; … 

Quell an uprising 
Control a riot; put a stop to …

Quench the flame 
Put out; extinguish.

Quench your thirst 
Just a fire may be quenched by water, so one’s thirst may
be quenched by drinking it. “After riding on our camels
through the desert for three days, without a drop of water
to drink, we eventually came to an oasis where we were
able to quench our thirst.” “Some advertisements claim
that certain drinks will quench your thirst, when in fact,
they make you want to drink even more.” “No matter
how old you get, you can never quench your thirst for
knowledge.

Querulous behavior 
Argumentative; difficult; irritable; looking for a quarrel;
Querulous individual A peevish; argumentative; contrary; cantankerous person. “The one problem with Rodger is that he only listens
to you to be able to find something to contradict. In my
opinion, he is a very querulous individual.”

Quest for fame and fortune

Quest for knowledge 
Seek a broad education; search for the truth, attempt to
understand the world; to get an overview of the meaning
of life; satisfy the thirst for knowledge. “In my quest for
knowledge, I traveled to the far corners of the earth, only
to eventually discover that the truth was inside of me
myself.” “In my quest for knowledge, I had to fight my
way through a lot of perplexity and pain before I began
to get on the right path.” “Following the bright light of
science in his quest for knowledge, man has progressed
from the age of darkness, to peer into the utmost regions
of the universe in the present and even gain knowledge
about the process of development of the galaxies in the
future.”

Quest for truth 
Struggling and striving in the search for truth.

Question of time 
Will happen inevitably. “It will happen sooner or later; it
is just a question of time.”

Question your motives 
Ask if your actions are based on good intentions. Whenever you do something good for the right reason, the re
will, still always, be someone who questions your motives.” When I say you have my best interest at heart, I
still question your motives.” “ … “

Queue-up 
Stand in line and wait your turn. “I don’t like to stand in
line and wait to be served. I even hate to queue-up and
take my turn at the ATM machine.” “I still remember
how in the old days, before I had a car, I used to have to
queue-up in line and wait for the bus in the rain.”

Quibble about

Quibble over

Quick action

Quick consequences 

Quick fix

Quick look

Quick reaction

Quick results

Quick-on-the-draw 
Just as a cowboy has to be quick on the draw to get his
gun out so he can shoot the other guy first, so some people are said to be quick on the draw when they can answer a challenge quickly and cleverly. “Be careful if you
try to challenge Richard, because he’s mentally sharp and
quick on the draw, and he will have countered your criticism before you even finish it.” “I can never win an argument with my wife because she is quick on the draw
and ready with a swift retort, no matter what I say.” “A
good debater will always be mentally quick on the draw
and ready to counter any argument brought against him.”

Quick-tempered

Quick-witted

Quiet as a mouse 
Just as a mouse maybe quiet because it is timid and
afraid of being discovered, so a person can be quiet as a
mouse to avoid being caught. “The children remained
quiet as a mouse to avoid being discovered where they
did not belong.” “Because our little sister, Annie, is so
shy and timid, she always remains quiet as a mouse, even
when the rest of us are noisily joking, and kidding
around.” “You’ll have to hide in the closet and keep
quiet as a mouse when the dormitory supervisor comes
into my room or I’ll get in trouble for having unauthorized guests after curfew.” “keep quiet as a mouse and
don’t tell our secret to anyone.”

Quiet down 
Shut up and be quiet; …

Quip 
Joke; wisecrack; clever remark;

Quirky behavior 
Eccentric, odd, peculiar, strange, idiosyncratic action or
conduct. “In black and white comedy movies, mad scientists were often portrayed as showing quirky behavior.”
“Excuse old Uncle Ed for his quirky behavior. He’s got a
screw loose somewhere.” “My son, you’d better try to
control your quirky behavior, or people will start saying
you are odd and peculiar.”

Quit bothering me.

Quit kidding around 
Be serious; don’t play with me; stop fooling about; stop
your joking; “Quit kidding around, and be serious for a
minute, and give me an honest answer my question.”
“Stop your joking and kidding around and take me more
seriously.” “I wish you would quit your kidding and
avoiding the topic and tell me how you really feel about
me.”

Quit while the going’s good.
Get out (of the business) now before it’s too late; stop
doing what you’re doing before you run into any prob-
lems; resign before you are force to go. “Get out of the
business now before you start to have any problems.”
“Our market share is shrinking, and sales are down by
twenty percent, so I think that we should quit while the
going’s good.” “Quit now while the going’s good before
you lose face when they try to force you to resign.”

Quit while you’re ahead. 
Stop, before you begin losing what you have gained. “A
clever gambler stops while he’s still winning because he
knows he has to quit while he’s ahead.” “The firm will
eventually begin to show losses if we continue to try to
market this product-line, so I think we should quit while
we are ahead.” “You stock shares may go up a little more
in price, but, then again they may fall dramatically, so I’d
advise you to sell and quit now while you are ahead.”

Quit your fooling around

Quite a comedown

Quite common

Quite nice 
Not bad; fairly good; relatively nice. ‘Quite nice’ indicates an understatement rather than an overstatement.
“My Aunt Betty is quite nice means that she is bearable
and tolerable rather than very pleasant.” “When we say
that a gift is quite nice, we mean just barely OK rather
than wonderful.” “You could say that his wife is quite
nice, if you like that sort of name-dropper and social
climber.”

Quitter 
Someone who gives-up easily. Don’t be a quitter and
give up too easily; he who endures and prevails finally
succeeds.”

Quiver and shake

Quivering from the cold

Quizzical look 
A look or glance that seems to be asking a question or
seeking an answer. “When I asked the bank manager if
we might mortgage our house, my wife gave me a quick,
quizzical look, as if to ask, ‘Why didn’t you discuss this
with me beforehand.’” “When I threw my computer
mouse out the window, my supervisor gave me a quizzical look, as if to ask if I had suddenly gone crazy.” “Morton is always going about with a quizzical look on his
face, as if to say that he cannot understand what is going
on around him.” 

Rack and ruin

Rack your brain 
Try hard to remember or recall.

Radiant smile

Radical action …. ;
... Radical activist

Raging inferno

Rags to riches

Rain or shine 
… come rain or shine

Raining cats and dogs 
Pelting, very heavy rain that is coming down in buckets

Raise a few eyebrows 
Shock a few prudish people

Raise a ruckus 
Raise a stink, a fuss.

Raise the roof 
Make a big fuss;

Raising hell 
Having a rip-roaring time doing whatever you want
without moral control.

Raising the bar
To do, produce, or be something better than anyone before, so that other people then feel they have to do better themselves
To raise the standards of quality that are expected of or required for something.
"He has raised the bar for other filmmakers"
"Since higher education became available to a greater number of people, businesses have increasingly been raising the bar for entry-level employees."

Rake in the dough. 
Just as in a bakery, they use a rake as a way of pulling
the hot loaves of bread (dough) towards them, and as at
the gambling table they rake in the chips to gather in
their winnings, so we may say that someone in business
who is raking in the dough is gathering huge profits.

Rake someone over the coals
Scold; reprimand; question severely.

Rake-off 
Illegal payoff or commission; under-the-table-money.

Raking it in 
Making large financial gains

Rally your forces

Ram it down your throat

Ramshackle home 
A house that is run-down and dilapidated and falling to pieces

Ran like clockwork

Random remark

Random sample

Rank-and- file 
Common everyday people (or soldiers) without official
grade, rank or status;

Ranting and raving

Rare occurrence

Raring-to-go

Rash action

Rasping voice

Rattled-nerves

Ravenous hunger 
Extremely hungry;

Raving mad

Raving maniac

Raw deal

Raw youth

Razor sharp 

Reach closure 
To finalize or settle a deal; to get the client to sign the
contract; to conclude a dispute; to come to final terms.
“The two companies have reached closure on the terms
of the joint venture and have signed the memorandum of
understanding this morning.” “A good salesman is one
who can reach closure and get the contract signed
quickly.” “A mediator should always be thinking about
the fastest way to reach agreement and closure between
the parties.”

Reach out

Reaching for the skies 
Having high hopes about one’s future or career; wanting
to be a star, rich and famous or to achieve some great accomplishment in life. “Young people who graduate are
often reaching for the stars and dreaming impossible
dreams before they eventually come down to earth and
become more realistic about their possibilities.”

Read between the lines.

Read something into
something that isn’t there

Read the riot act

Read the small print

Ready and waiting

Ready for action

Ready money

Ready to go

Really something! 
Something really special, impressive, astonishing, amazing. “You should hear the new album by the Scores. It is
really something!” “This new wireless device is really
something! It can check your e-mail, take pictures, control your refrigerator and even do your shopping by remote control.” “That new girl in our class is really something! She is so adorable.”

Recant a remark 
Take back what you said; go back on your word; eat your
words; say that what you said was not what you meant.
“The Cardinal told the Bishop that if the Bishop did not
recant his critical remark about the story of the New Testament being merely mythological, he would be excommunicated.”

Recharge your batteries

Reckless abandon 
Heedless, careless, wild, thoughtless lack of restraint.

Recon with 
Pe prepared on advance to expect ...

Reconcile yourself to 
Accept the circumstances and get used to it.

Recoup your losses

Red carpet treatment

Red herring 
Just as in the English foxhunt someone might drag a red
herring to lead the hound dogs astray on a false trail, so...

Red tape 
Official paperwork; bureaucracy; official procedure. 

Red-blooded American boy

Reduced to rubble

Reek of tobacco 
Stink from smoking cigarettes

Refresh my memory

Regrettable incident

Regular guy

Rehash an argument 
Repeat and go over an old argument word for word.

Reign head and shoulders above the rest.

Reign yourself in 
Just as a horse… hold yourself back from

Relay a message 
Pass on to; tell someone …

Rely on someone

Remain undaunted

Remedy the situation

Reprimand for

Reproach for

Resigned to your fate

Resist arrest

Resolute action

Responsible to 
“I am responsible to my commanding officer to carry out
his orders.” “I am responsible to the CFO for gathering
the information for the financial report.” “The government is responsible to the public to maintain national security.”

Rest on your laurels 
Be satisfied with your previous fame and accomplishments;

Resting on my shoulders 
Feeling the burden of the world or of responsibility resting on your shoulders as if you had to carry it all alone.

Restore order 
... return to normal

Return to your roots 
Go back to visit and study where your cultural tradition came from.

Rhetorical question 
A question you ask without expecting any answer.

Rhyme or reason 
Pattern and logic;

Ride out the storm

Ride roughshod over 
Go ahead with what you want without regard for other
people’s feelings;

Riffraff 
Worthless, trashy people

Right between the eyes

Right of way

Right off the bat

Right on target

Right on the button 
Exactly on the right spot

Right on! 
That’s exactly what I think; I agree. “Exactly! Right on!
That’s the answer I wanted!” ‘Right on brother! That’s it!
I agree! That’s cool! That’s it! I agree! That’s cool!” * 

Right the wrongs of the world

Right under your nose

Rigorous action

Rigorous discipline

Riotous behavior

Ripe for the picking

Ripe old age 
Advanced in years;

Rise and shine 
Wake up and get ready;

Rise to the challenge

Rise to the occasion

Risk life and limb 
Put your life on the line for what you believe in or to do
your duty.”

Risk your neck … ;
“I’m not sticking my neck out for you. I
won’t risk my own neck to save another’s.”...

Risky business

Ritzy 
Elegant and luxurious as in the Ritz Hotel; high class and
expensive;

Rivet attention

Road block

Road hog

Roasted-alive

Robbing the cradle

Rock and roll 
Just as on rock music we rock and roll from one side to
the other in relaxed abandon, so we may say lets rock
and roll when it’s time to start a party or activity or even
a dangerous mission.

Rock bottom

Rocks in your head 
No brains.

Roll-out the red carpet 
Make special preparations for the arrival of a dignitary or
important person, including rolling-out the special, red
carpet that is reserved only for VIP’s to walk on. “Whenever the International Chairman of the Board visits our
Thai branch office, we roll-out the red carpet and treat
him like royalty.” “The Chamber Of Ministers actually
keeps a red carpet, that is especially reserved, and only
rolled-out once a year for the Queen to walk upon during
her annual visit” “When the Chinese president visits
Washington, next year, you can be sure that they will
really roll-out the red carpet and give him a royal welcome.”

Roll-up your shirt sleeves

Romp and stomp about 
Playing and frolicking about while stamping your feet;

Root of the problem

Roped into doing something

Rose-colored glasses 

Rot in hell

Rotten egg

Rough and ready

Rough and tumble

Rough someone up

Rough stuff

Roughing it

Round and round we go

Round of applause 
Everyone around the room or table should clap their
hands to tank or congratulate someone;

Round of drinks

Routine check

Rowdy bunch

Rub elbows with/rub shoulders with
Associate and mingle with a rich crowd in the cocktail
party circuit;

Rub salt in your wounds

Rub someone the wrong way

Rubber check 
A bad check; a check that bounces; written on an account
that lacks sufficient funds to cover the check; that
stretches the balance.

Rubber stamp 
Accept and endorse with out question at someone else’s
request or behest;

Rubbish! 
Nonsense!

Rub-it-in 
Enjoy making another suffer by pointing out his mistakes… like rubbing salt in his wounds ...

Rub-off-on someone

Ruddy-cheeked 
Red-faced around the cheeks;

Ruffle a few feathers 
Just as some birds ruffle and shake their feathers at the
slightest sign of disturbance, so a remark or action made
in society may be said to ruffle a few feathers or upset a
few people. “When it came out that Virginia Wolf and
her husband were in-favor-of free-love, it ruffled a few
feathers within the Bloomsbury group.” “When it was
rumored that the heir to the English throne was known to
be having an affair with a divorced American woman
who had been a high-class prostitute in Shanghai before
coming to Britain, that ruffled more than a few a few
feathers.” “When the Prince of Whales first took his mistress to an official function, it ruffled a few feathers.” “

Rule of thumb 
Follow the standard that is generally accepted.

Rule the roost 
Just as a chicken cock or rooster rules the roost in the
henhouse, so a person can rule the roost in a certain
situation or position; to have everyone obey your orders.
“In our family, father earns the money, but mother rules
the roost.” “It was not long after Roger joined the gang
that he began to rule the roost.” “Our office manager
likes to rule the roost and doesn’t let any detail get past 
his attention.”

Run after someone

Run amok 
Start running around like a crazy person

Run amuck 
Just as o may, literally, get stuck in mud and muck so
you can’t get out, so we may say that one runs a muck
when one cannot get out of a situation

Run an errand

Run away from things

Run for your life

Run-in with the law

Run interference for

Run of the mill 
Common; ordinary; like something that comes off the
assembly line in a factory.

Run of the place 
In control of; in command;

Run off at the mouth 
Keep on talking continually, until it becomes too much.

Run off your feet

Run off-topic 
Lose the thread of thought and get off on another topic.

Run out of steam

Run rampant 
Run around raging and out of control;

Run riot

Run roughshod over

Run the gauntlet

Run the show 
Be in charge of things.

Run to seed

Running around on

Running away from yourself

Running battle between

Running out of ideas

Running through my mind

Running wild

Running-scared

Run-off-your-feet

Run-of-the-mill 
Ordinary; mediocre average;

Run-ragged 
Become tired, exhausted from too mush stressful work

Runs in the family 
A common characteristic that is passed on through generations;

Run-the-gamut 
Go through the full range from beginning to end

Rush of adrenalin

Rush of excitement

Rush off in a huff. 
Suddenly become angry and leave immediately; exit directly after being insulted; take offence and quickly depart. “She rushed off in a huff when we said we couldn’t
accept her invitation.” “Before you get upset and rush off
in a huff, the way you usually do, let’s take a moment to 
discuss the matter.” “Don’t rush off in a huff until you
hear the reason why I cannot support your case.”

Saber-rattling 
Just as an old swordsman would threaten someone just
by rattling his sword in its sheath, ...

Sack out

Safe and secure

Safe and sound

Safe conduct … ;
…pass

Safe house

Safety cushion 
Just as cars have safety cushions in case of an accident, so we may

Safety net 
Just as a tightrope walker can fall into a safety net if he
loses his footing, so

Safety in numbers

Sage look 
With a wise look in your eyes; a facial appearance that
shows internal wisdom. “I may have a sage look in my
eyes, but I am not yet so wise.”

Said in jest 
Only joking; kidding; teasing; in a jocular manner; intended humorously; not meant seriously; trying to be
funny; pulling your leg. “When I said you were the biggest ladies’ man in town, I was only talking in jest. Don’t
take me seriously. I meant no offence.” “I was just jesting when I said you could cheat an old lady out of her
last penny. What I really meant was that you are quite a
shrewd businessman.” “Something said humorously,
seemingly in jest, often contains an element of truth.”

Sales pitch 
Just as a salesman gives his presentation and hands us a
line that his product is good, so

Salt away 
Save up money for later on;

Salt of the earth 
Good person;

Salvage what you can.

Same as always 
Same as ever

Same old face

Same old story

Same to you

Sap 
Silly, foolish person. “What a sap. You’re so stupid
you’d believe anything anyone told you.” ;Don’t be such
a sap …

Sassy talk

Savage beating

Save face

Save for a rainy day 

Save your breath 
Don’t bother to talk because ‘m not going to listen.

Save your own hide.

Save your own neck

Save your own skin first.

Saved by the bell 
Just as a boxer is saved by the bell when he is knocked
down and the referee is counting to ten …

Saving grace 
One quality that makes you deserve forgiveness in spite
of many other unworthy characteristics;

Savor the moment

Say the word

Say when.

Say your piece

Say-so

Scads and scads of money
A lot of money.

Scapegoat 
Someone upon which to act out repressed, aggressive
feelings; someone to lay the blame upon; sacrificial victim. “The government has to find someone to shift the
burden of blame upon, so they have chosen the finance
minister as their scapegoat.” “There is always one weak
kid in class who serves as the butt and scapegoat of all
the other children’s pent-up aggressions.” “Hitler used
the Jews as a scapegoat in Germany. First, by blaming
economic hardship on Jewish merchants, and, second, by
exterminating millions of Jews in Nazi death camps.”

Scared to death

Scared-silly

Scared-the-pants-off-me.

Scat! 
Get out of here! “I always say, “Scat!” to frighten my
neighbor’s cat whenever it comes into my yard, so it will
run where it came from.”

Scatter-brained 
Absent-minded; forgetful; confused; mixed-up; emptyheaded; poorly thought through; dizzy; crazy. “Why,
Johnny, that’s the most stupid and scatterbrained idea I
have ever heard you say. I think you must be getting to
be a little empty headed and addlebrained.” “The other
day Pa forgot his place of birth and couldn’t remember
how old he was. I recon he’s getting a little scatterbrained in his old age.” “Little Sister Sue sometimes
comes up with the most-scatterbrained schemes that
we’ve come to fear that she’s not alright in the head.”

Scattered thoughts

School of hard knocks

School of thought

Scoff at

Scope of interest

Scorched-to-death 
Thirsty from being in the heat 

Score points with 
Win favor with someone. “The way to score points with
the boss is to always meet deadlines.”

Score to settle

Scout about

Scout’s honor

Scramble to safety

Scrape by ……. ;
... scrape a living

Scrape the bottom of the barrel

Scrape through

Scrape together

Scrape-up

Scratch the surface

Scratching your head 
Trying to figure something out; seeking an answer; at a
loss for a solution; trying to solve the problem; looking
for a way out; searching for ideas; confused. “We are
scratching our heads trying to figure out a way to raise
enough money to support our community charity fund.”
“American college students may be sometimes seen
scratching their heads trying to find the answer to an
exam question.” “The general public has been left
scratching it’s head, trying to figure out where all the
money went that was supposed to have supported the urban development program.”

Scratch-off

Scrawny kid 
Skinny; thin;

Screaming bloody murder

Screaming mad

Screwball idea

Screwed-up-the-job

Scrimp and save

Scrounge around …..;
... and scrounge up

Scruff-of-the-neck

Scum of the earth

Scurry like a rat

Scuttle the project

Scuttle your hopes 
Dash and break your hopes and desires.

Scuttlebutt! 
Silly or nasty rumors without basis in fact; loose gossip.
“In the old days when men were at sea for moths at a
time, they had little new or interesting to talk about on
the ship except to repeat and speculate on whatever scuttlebutt was going around.”

Sealed with a kiss

Search for truth

Search me! 
I don’t know; I can’t give you an answer; no idea…

Second best 
Second choice 

Second childhood

Second nature

Second thoughts

Secret admirer

Secret longings

Security blanket 
Just as kids

Security threat

Sedentary life 
Living mostly withdrawn at home, getting little exercise;
in a seated position. “.I’m now living a sedentary life living at home alone, not getting out and about much anymore.”

See eye-to-eye

See fit to 
See as advisable;

See how things pan out 
Just as the gold…, so … wait and see what happens

See red 
Just as a bull will charge when he sees a red piece of
cloth, so we may be said to see red when we are provoked and become angry.

See right through someone

See stars

See the light 
… finally see the light

See the point

See which way the wind is blowing

Seed of discontent

Seed of doubt

Seeing things

Seeing-is-believing. 
You have to see it before you can believe it;

Seek refuge

Seek solace

Seen better-days 
No longer new; getting old and used and broken down;
worn-out; showing signs of wear and tear; dilapidated;
tattered.

Seething-mad 
Extremely angry; absolutely fuming with anger; enraged;
mad to the point of boiling. “I was seething-mad when I
heard Ervin had claimed that he could do the job better
than I can.” “Zack was seething-mad when he learned
that his mother had sold the house without asking him”
“Gloria was seething-mad when Anna informed her that
Dick had been seeing another woman.”

Seize control 
Take over;

Seize the moment 
Live the moment to the full;

Self access

Self-contained

Self-content

Self-denial

Self-evident

Self-indulgence

Self-made-man

Self-reliant

Self-seeking

Self-serving

Sell for a song

Sell out a cause

Sell out a friend

Sell short 
Justas stock shares can be sold shot of reaching their
maximum value, so we can sell a person short by not allowing or seeing his true value.

Sell someone a bill of goods

Sell someone out

Sell someone short 
Underestimate someone’s capability; fail to estimate
someone’s value..

Sell your own mother

Send apologies

Send condolences

Send someone packing

Sense of decency

Serious matter

Serious threat

Serve as a decoy

Serve as a front

Serve as a go-between 
To work as an intermediary; mediator; middle man; do
liaison; be a link between two parties. “Norway has
served as the go-between for the Tamil Tigers and the
Singhalese in Sri Lanka to help promote the on-going
peace negotiations.” “Since New Link Company does not
have an official sales agent in Thailand yet, my uncle
Ton will serve as an unofficial go-between until a local
sales office has been registered.” “Her father and
mother have not been on speaking terms for many years,
so Rhonda serves a go-between when it is necessary for
her parents to communicate.”

Serve notice 
Give legal intention in writing to tell what will happen.

Serve the cause of justice

Serve the purpose

Serve time 
Spend time in jail; serve out one’s prison term.

Serves you right! 
It’s your own fault; you get what you deserve; you had it
coming to you.

Set a precedent

Set aback 
Unexpectedly surprised and shocked.

Set an example 
Be the first to show others the way; lead the way; break
new ground; be a model for others to follow; provide example for others to emulate. The Russians set an example 
by sending up the first manned-satellite into space exploration “The American founding fathers wrote their own
constitution to set an example for other nations to follow
in creating democratic governments, allowing the rights
of life, liberty, equality and happiness for all.” “Teachers
and parents should always set a good example for young
people to follow.”

Set in cement 
Set in concrete; unchangeable; inflexible; resistant to
change. “I worked in a job-environment based on old
regulations that were set in cement, but I soon quit.”

Set in one’s ways

Set no store in 
Have no confidence in; do not trust;

Set one’s sights on 
Aim for;

Set the bar higher

Set the wheels in motion

Set the world on fire 
Do something really important to make a big change in
the world. “Young people always think they are going to
go out and set the world on fire.”

Set things straight once and for all
Correct a misconception; tell it the way it is. “ … Set
things straight.

Set tongues wagging 
Start people gossiping.

Set you sights on something

Set your estate in order 
Make your last will and testament and set your affairs in
order; settle your estate.

Set your heart on something

Set your house in order

Set your mind at rest 
Free yourself from worry;

Set your mind on something

Be determined to achieve a goal

Set-in-your-ways. 
Inflexible; a slave of routine; too stubborn to change; unable to break your pattern; incapable of changing your
opinion. “If you were not so set-in-your-ways, you might
break out of your routine and get out and meet somebody
and finally find a wife.” “We tried to get grandfather to
adapt to some of the values of modern life, but he was so
set-in-his-ways, he refused to change.” “Connie is so
stubborn and set-in-her-ways that she refuses to change
her attitudes and old-fashioned ways.” “Old teachers are
sometimes so-set-in-their ways that it is hard to get them
to try something new.”

Settle an old score 
To get revenge for something that happened in the past;
to get even with someone for what he did to you long
ago; to pay someone back for an insult, injury or something that has hurt you. “I’ve got an old score to settle
with my ex-husband for all the harm he did me during
our marriage.” “Nelly has an old score to settle with her 
childhood friend, Shelby, because Shelby stole Nelly’s
first love and later married the guy.” “The Mafia has an
old score to settle with my uncle Bob, whom nobody has
seen in years.”

Settle down

Settle for

Settle for less

Settle in

Settle with

Settle your accounts

Severe reprimand

Sew-up a deal

Sexual discrimination

Sexual harassment

Shabby action

Shady deal

Shady past 
A dishonest, lying, deceitful, corrupt; immoral; immodest, illegal, and improper past-history. “The Duke was
known to be having an illicit relationship with a woman
with a rather shady past.” “Despite his rather shady past,
Tim Allen went on to become one of the best-known
stars in Hollywood.” “When it became common knowledge that the vice-president had a shady past, the president had no other choice but to ask him to resign.”
Shaggy dog story A long, long joke or story that sake of the punch line at
the end..

Shake a leg. 
Hurry up and get a move on; let’s get going; speed up;
hustle. “All right children. Wake up and shake a leg, so
you won’t be late for school.” “If I don’t shake a leg and
get down to the bank before twelve, they will be closed
for lunch hour.” “Let’s hurry up and shake a leg and
hustle our asses out of here, before the enemy spots us
and starts firing mortar shells.”

Shake-down

Shaken-up

Shake-up

Shaking in my boots 
Frightened because someone is threatening you; afraid of
someone or something; filled with fear and anxiety;
trembling in expectation and that something terrible will
happen; scared and afraid of what a person may do to
you. “Chad was shaking in his boots when, Alvin, the
schoolyard bully challenged him to a fistfight.” “Alice
was shaking in her boots when she stood up to give her
presentation in class.” “I was shaking in my boots when,
our teacher, Mr. Mallory, was threatening to give me a
beating with his cane.”

Shame on you! 
You should be ashamed of yourself for what you are doing. 

Shame-faced 
Doing a thing without showing any shame.

Shape-up or ship-out 
Do your job properly or get out of here!

Share a confidence 
Confide a secret to someone.

Share and share alike

Share the wealth. 
Give some of what you have got to each of the others.

Sharp (on time) 
Exactly on time, on the dot, not a second too early or too
late. “The time now is twelve o’clock sharp, exactly on
the second,” “The meeting will begin at twelve o’clock
sharp, and last for one hour exactly” “Breakfast will be at
seven o’clock sharp, and the busses will be leaving at
seven-thirty on the dot.”

Sharp as a tack 
Quick-minded; clever.

Sharpen-up! 
Don’t be so stupid

Sharp-tongued

Shattered dreams 
Shattered hopes

Shattered nerves

She wears the pants in the family.

She’s a dragon. 
A wife who “breathes fire” when she speaks to her husband; a female colleague/opponent to be afraid of; a
woman to fear. “Never try to argue with Andrew’s wife.
She’s a real dragon. She’s a fire breather if I ever saw
one.” “Don’s secretary is a real dragon; all the other girls
are terrified of her.” “Never do anything to go against
Vera’s will. She’s a real dragon. She’s likely to eat you
alive.”

Shed a tear

Shed light upon

Sheepskin 
Hundreds of years ago a university degree was written on
sheepskin, so

Sheer delight

Shell-out Pay-up now; 
... “Certain kinds of shells used to be used
as money in certain , which is probably where we got the
term ‘shell-out’ now.” “If you shell out now and pay
your gambling debt, we will not do you bodily harm.”
“Going out on a dinner-date is getting expensive! Last
night I had to shell out over two hundred dollars just for
two people to eat.”

Shifty-looking character 
Lazy, good-for-nothing, idle-looking person.

Shine up to

Shining example

Ships that pass in the night
Just as two ships may pass one another in the night without seeing one another, so two people may ...

Shirk responsibility 
Avoid doing your duty;

Shiver went up and down my spine

Shoddy behavior 
Acting or behaving your self in an improper trashy, low 
class, inferior; sloppy; substandard; poor fashion. “You’d
better excuse yourself to your mother for your shoddy
heavier at the banquet or she is likely to show you the
door.” “Darling, I apologize for the shoddy way I have
treated you in the past, and I promise to do better in the
future.” “In spite of his rather shoddy reputation based on
deeds done in the past, Rasputin developed himself into
becoming one of the most influential personages of the
Russian upper crust.”

Shoe is on the other foot 
Change places with…

Shoot the breeze 
Sit around talking a lot.

Shoot the works!

Shoot your mouth off 
Brag and tell everyone that you are better than you are or
tell them how good you are.

Shooting star

Shooting your mouth off 
Talking too much; going around saying things you
should not tell; bragging to make yourself look good;
complaining about matters that should be kept quiet; giving away secrets; telling things that are confidential.
“Stop shooting your mouth off and pretending to be
something you are not.” “If you had not gone around
shooting your mouth off, this matter, it could have been
kept private.” “If you stopped shooting your mouth off
about how good you think you are, people would like
you a lot better.”

Short and sweet

Short of change 
Do not have enough coins or bills to make up the difference.

Shortchange someone

Short-circuit 
Get your wires crossed and …

Short-lived 
Impermanent

Short-tempered 
Easily irritated and angered.

Shot in the arm 
Just as one might get a medical injection to make you
feel better, so you might figuratively be said to get a shot
in the arm if someone helps you out finically...”

Shoulder the burden

Shoulder to cry on 
Someone to support you in times of emotional need; a
shoulder to lean on for comfort.

Shoulder-to-shoulder

Shouting match

Shove around

Shove aside

Shove off! 
Just as a boat can get a shove off away from the pier to
float clear, so we also tell a person to shove off when we
want him depart, clear out and go away.

Shove over

Show someone the door 
Tell someone to get out, to leave, to exit (through the
door) and not come back because of something that person has said or done which has displeased you; to throw
someone out for bad behavior or because he is not
wanted; to kick him out. “After my wife heard that I was
unfaithful, she showed me the door.” “Uncle Toby made
a rude remark at the dinner table, during his last visit, and
Aunt Betsy promptly showed him the door.”

Show someone the ropes

Show your good side 
Let someone see your best qualities so he will like you.
Show your true colors. Show through your behavior what your true character is
really like.

Show-off 
Someone seeking attention by showing-off skills or talents; wanting to show others that he is better than them;
making a display of himself in order to seek the admiration of others; showing-off based on wealth or status;
putting on airs and pretending to be better than others
because of some advantage; braggart; big-headed; knowit-all.. “Boys often show-off their superior strength and
athletic skills just to get the attention of the girls.” “Patrick is always showing-off his knowledge and skill in
languages by citing quotations in Greek and Latin and
French.” “A man who is wise and humble will not showoff how much he knows.” “Doreen is such a show-off.
She wears a lot of costly jewelry, so people will be envious of how wealthy she is.”

Shrewd observation 
Astute, perceptive, insightful comment.

Shrinking violet 
Very timid person;

Shrug it off. 
Let an offence or disappointment go because you do not care.
Shrug your shoulders A physical gesture meaning that you do not know.

Shuffle about 
Walk around just sliding your feet along the ground
without lifting them, the way that some old people do.

Shunned-by-all 
Avoided and rejected by everyone; no one wants to go
near or approach him; everyone wants to keep away from
him because of his bad behavior; shut-out of society;
steered clear of and looked down upon. “After Hester
had confessed her sin publicly, she was shunned-by alland lived out her life as an outsider.” “After people discovered that Olivia had purposely killed her new-born
child, she was shunned-by-all.” “When the secret came
out that Geoffrey Fry had long been a spy who was betraying his own countrymen, he was shunned by all.”

Shush-up! 
Be quiet! Hush; don’t say anything.

Shut your gob. Shut your trap. Shut your yap. Shutup!
Impolite ways of saying close your stupid mouth and
stop talking; be quiet! (impolite)

Shy away from … ; 
Some Thai people shy away from foreigners because

Shy guy 
A man who is shy; lacks confidence to speak; bashful; 
inhibited; introverted; withdrawn; timid. “I am a shy guy.
I have always been afraid to speak to women and look
them in the eye.” “Worthington is a shy guy. It’s hard to
get to know him at first, but after he gets to know you, he
opens-up and comes out of his shell” “Everybody likes a
shy guy better than a show-off.”

Sick and tired of 
Fed-up with ………….sick to death of

Side with someone

Sidelined 
Just as a sportsman may be taken off the foeld tosit on
the bench on the sidelines, so a …

Side-step-the-problem

Sidle-along 
Creep; slither; like a snake. “You sidle along and slither
on out of here you low-down rattlesnake. We don’t want
to see people like you around here.”

Sift through

Sigh of relief 
An exhalation of air accompanied by a sense of release.

Sight-unseen

Sign on the dotted-line 
Sign your life away by writing your name in the place
indicated at the bottom of the contract.

Sign up

Sign your life away

Signed, sealed and delivered

Signing your own death warrant

Silent majority

Silent partner 
An investor who takes no part in the operation of a business.

Silly goose! 
Silly fool

Silver spoon

Silver-tongued devil

Simmer down 
Cool off; get your anger under control.

Sing like a canary 
Tell the police all they want to know about your accomplices.

Single combat 
One-on-one

Single out

Single’s bar 
A bar where people of the opposite sex go to meet one
another.

Single-file 
In line, one behind the other.

Single-handed 
Done without anyone else’s help.

Single-minded 
Concentrating solely only on one thing. “Being singleminded can be a good thing when you are developing a
skill, but it can be a bad thing when you are stubbornly
supporting only your own ideas.”

Sink in someone’s estimation

Sinking fast

Sinking-in 
Finally beginning to get the intended meaning; penetrate
down into the mind so one eventually sees and understands. “The thought is finally sinking into my mind, and
I’m beginning to realize what you mean.” “Can’t you get
the idea through your thick head? It’s time it finally
started sinking in.”

Sit and chew the fat a while
Sit around and make small talk; converse; make idle
conversation have a chat; shoot the breeze; exchange
chit-chat; sit around and gossip. “Uncle Clem likes to sit
around and chew the fat with his old cronies because
they have nothing better to do.” “Let’s sit and chew the
fat for a while until the other ladies arrive for the baby
shower.” “I’ve just bought an original engraving of two
old cowboys sitting around chewing the fat.”

Sit by and do nothing
Sit down and rest a spell

Sit tight 
Sit still; don’t move; stay where you are and wait; hang
on a while...

Sitting down 
…….take it sitting down

Sitting duck 
An open target

Sitting on the fence 
Having trouble deciding one way or the other; can be
swayed in one direction or the other; waiting to follow
developments before making a final decision which side
to tale. “I can’t decide whether to invest in the stock
Markey or in real estate. I’m still sitting on the fence.”
“Some political observers are sitting on the fence regarding the effectiveness of proposed government tax cuts.”
“The Labor Unionists s are still sitting on the fence about
whether to join with the conservatives in order to block
the possibility of the communists being able to form a
coalition government.”

Sitting on your hands 
Being idle, with nothing to do but sit on your hands.

Sitting target 
Just as a duck in the water can be said to be a sitting target for a hunter, so a person may be said to be a sitting
target when he is all alone out in the open with no defenses.

Six feet under 
Dead and buried in the Christian tradition, six feet below
the ground.

Sixth sense 
An intuitive, mental gift for seeing and knowing things
that others do not; an unusual and uncanny capability of
seeing into the spiritual world or into the future; the gift
for seeing into the minds of others and knowing what
they are thinking and going to do. “I’ve got a sixth sense
that told me beforehand what he was going to do.” “That
girl has an uncanny sixth sense for knowing what I am
going to say and do.”

Size up the situation 
Assess a 

Sizeable amount

Skating on thin ice

Skeleton in your closet 
A secret about something bad you did in the past that no
one knows about; “I suspect you have a skeleton in your
closet, some dark, hidden secret that you do not want to
come to light because it would damage your reputation.”

Skim the surface

Skimp and save

Skimpy 
Insufficient; not enough; scant; sparse. …skimpy blouse/bikini

Skin and bones 
So very thin that you appear to be just skin and bones.

Skin of your teeth 
Just barely

Skin you alive

Skinflint 
Someone who is stingy.

Skinny-dip 
Bathe naked.

Skip it. 
Never mind; forget it; just let the subject drop.

Skip school/ class

Skip town

Skip-out

Skirt the issue 
Side-step the problem; go around it.

Skullduggery 
Dishonest dealings behind your back;

Slack off a bit

Slam the door in your face
If someone comes to your door, and you are angry with
him, and don’t want to see or speak with him, you might
actually slam the door (close with a bang) right in his
face. “I expected Judy would be angry with me for forgetting our date, and when I went to her house to apologize, she slammed the door right in my face.” “Get out of
my house and never come knocking at my door again or
I’ll slam it right in your face.” “When beggars or missionaries come to my door, I just slam it in their face.” “I
tried to join an exclusive country club in Beverly Hills,
but when they reviewed my financial assets, they
slammed the door in my face.”

Slap around 
Use physical abuse on someone;

Slap in the face

Slap-dash 
Done quickly; thrown together in a hurry;

Slap-happy 
Whacky or stupid from being slapped around too often

Slated to

Sleek and slender 
Thin;

Sleep it off

Sleep on it 
Wait a night before deciding; take time to consider; don’t
act too impulsively; give it a chance to sink in; take time
to mull it over. “When you have to make an important
decision, it is better to take your time to think it over and
“sleep on it,” so-to-speak, before you come to a final
conclusion.” “I can’t give you a definite answer today, 
but let me sleep on it, and I’ll tell you tomorrow.” “When
you feel like saying something nasty that will cause trouble, it is better to control the impulse of the moment and
sleep on it and see how you feel tomorrow.”

Sleep tight.

Sleight-of-hand

Slight chance

Slightly the worse for wear

Slim chance

Sling mud

Slip of the tongue

Slip through your fingers 
Unable to catch or hold onto something because it is so
slippery that you cannot get a grip on it.

Slip-out for a minute 
Duck out; skip out; nip out.

Slipped my mind 
I forgot

Slippery as an eel 
Hard to grasp and keep a hold on.

Slip-up 
Make a mistake;

Slow as molasses 
Just as molasses flows slowly out of a container because
it is so thick, so a person

Slow on the uptake

Slow poke …….. 
“Don’t be such a slow-poke, always lagging behind. Hurry and catch up with the rest of the group.”

Slowly but surely

Sly as a fox

Smack dab in the middle

Small cog in a big machine

Small fry 
Just as small finger-sized fish are called small-fry, so …

Small matter 
A matter of little importance.

Small time

Smarten-up

Smashed to smithereens 
Smashed to bits and small fragments

Smell a rat 
Become suspicious;

Smoke screen

Smoke-out 
… of your hole

Smoldering resentment

Smooching in the corner

Smooth as glass

Smooth operator

Smooth over

Smooth sailing 
Just as a sailboat sails smoothly on a calm and smooth
sea, so we may compare a job or a task to smooth sailing.

Smooth things out 
…. ; smooth out your differences

Smother with kindness

Smug look 
An expression of self-satisfaction, superiority and arrogance on someone’s face. “Rodger thinks he is superior 
to me, and has such a smug look on his face that I’d like
to punch him right in the nose.” “Wipe that smug look
off your face, you …

Smutty talk 
Dirty, indecent talk; morally offensive;

Snaffle-up 
To buy up immediately;

Snail’s pace 
Extremely slowly; dragging on for a long while;

Snake in the grass 
An enemy who pretends to be a friend; someone low
who cannot be trusted

Snap at somebody
If you snap at someone, don’t be surprised if
he snaps back at you.”

Snap decision 
Quick decision made without taking time to think about

Snap idea

Snap it up! 
Hurry-up! Get a move on!

Snap judgment 
A quick judgment made on the spur of the moment.

Snap-out-of-it 
Wake up! What’s wrong with you? Are you in daze?

Snazzy suit 
Flashy; loud; flamboyant …

Sneak up on

Sneaking suspicion

Snide remark

Sniff-out

Snippy remark

Snitch on someone

Snooping around … 
Stop your snooping around…

Snooty attitude 
An … shown by…thinking … better-than others

Snow and slush 
When snow is melting, it turns into a substance like
finely crushed ice which we callslush.

Snowball effect

Snowball’s chance in hell

Snowed-under 
Just as your car or house can be snowed …

Snub someone

Snuff-out

Snug as a bug in a rug

Snuggle up to someone

Soaked to the skin

Soaking wet

Sob story 
A sad story intended to make the listener feel pity and
offer help;

Sobering thought

Social climber

So-far-so-good

Soft landing 
Just as a spacecraft can make a soft landing on the moon,
so we can say that

Soft life 
An easy life with little to do and enough money to meet
your needs.

Soft peddle 
Play down; pretend something is not important;

Soft soap someone 
Flatter; butter-up; 

Soft-spot in my heart

Soft touch 
A person easily tricked; fooled;

Soften your stance 
Become more flexible and less rigid in your view or position.

Softie … 
“You’re an old softie. You let people take advantage
of you by telling you sob stories when all they want is
money.”

Soft-mannered

Solemn occasion

Solid as a rock

Solid facts/evidence

Solitary confinement

Some other time 
The answer to an invitation that we do not want to accept
or that we want to put off until some later date; not at the
moment, perhaps another time in the future that would be
more convenient. “When I asked Candy for a date to go
out to dinner tomorrow night, she said we’d have to put it
off until some other time, which I interpret that to mean
that she doesn’t want to go out with me at all and wants
to discourage me from asking her again.” “I wanted to
make an appointment with the CEO tomorrow, but he is
flying to Hong Kong tonight, so he said we would have
to meet some other time, perhaps on the Friday after his
return.” “When a person says “Some other time,” that
usually means they are just trying to put you off, and the
time will never come.”

Some semblance of normalcy/order

Somebody snitched my purse

Someone to watch over me

Something else! 
Something rather out of the ordinary.

Something the cat brought in
… ; “What’s wrong with you? You look like something
the cat brought in.”

Something to remember me by

Something’s cropped-up. 
Something’s suddenly come-up that needs immediate
attention; that is a cause of delay because of an unexpected problem needing to be solved quickly. “Just as a
crop can grow up and need to be harvested quickly, so a
problem can crop up that demands speedy action.” “I’m
afraid that I shall have to cancel our appointment this
morning, because something has cropped-up at the office
that needs our immediate attention.” “Something’s
cropped-up that will delay the installation of the system,
but we are working on it, and we’ll have the problem 
solved in a couple of days.”

Something’s popped-up.
Something’s sprung up

Son of a gun 
Just as they used to deliver babies on ships at sea behind
the privacy of a big gun, when people now say you are a
son of a gun they mean to insult you by implying they
don’t know where you come from or who your father
may have been.

Song and dance 
Make-up a lot of false excuses; …”Don’t give me that
old song and dance …

Sop it up.

Sopping wet

Sore loser 
Poor loser.

Sore point 
Vulnerable point; touchy topic;

Sorry state

Sort out your differences 
Work out an agreement; come to a compromise; learn to
be friends and get along.

Sort something out

Soul-searching 
Looking down inside yourself to find answers and think
about who you really are; reaching deep into your spirit
seeking goodness and truth; turning over in your mind
what is right and what is wrong; what is good for you
and what is not; trying to find yourself by doing some
psychological self-analysis. “When I was in college, I did
a lot of soul-searching to try to find out what I wanted to
do with my life.” “After years of soul-searching, not
knowing what I really wanted or who I really was, I finally matured a bit and discovered that what I actually
wanted was to become a wife and mother.” “When I was
in my early twenties, I was psychologically unstable and
wasted a lot time on foolish things, but, then, when I was
twenty-six I stopped and did some soul-searching and
realized that my calling was to become a writer.”

Sound somebody out 
Ask someone for his opinion on a certain subject; listen
to see what he says about your questions

Sound the alarm

Sound thrashing

Sounding board

Sounds fishy 
Seems hard to believe; sounds like a lie; cannot be true;
must be some trick; said to deceive. “He told me some
fishy story about how he had lost his wallet and needed
$5 for a taxi to get home.” “Cynthia gave us some fishy
excuse about being tied-up in traffic, when actually we
knew she had woken-up two hours late.” “There must be
something fishy going on in their financial reporting because the numbers just do not add up and balance.”

Soup-to-nuts 
Just as a super store may sell everything from soup to
nuts, so a company or person may be able to supply and
provide a wide selection of everything imaginable. 

Sour grapes 
Jealousy and bitter resentment.

Sow the seed of discontent

Sow your wild oats

Spaced-out 
In an altered state of mind due to the use of illegal drugs
such as LSD; physically present but somewhere else as
though in a state of trance; dazed; far away. “I can’t even
remember the 1960’s because I was spaced-out for more
than a decade.” “Nowadays, kids are getting spaced-out
on drugs to escape the pressures and insecurities of their
daily lives.” “When rock musicians get high and spacedout before they play, it may make them feel that they are
on a good trip, but, later, when they listen to the soundtracks in a normal state of mind they realize the actual
quality of the music suffers due to the use of drugs.”

Spare no expense

Spark of genius

Sparkle in your eye

Spartan existence 
Justas the early Spartan soldiers in ancient Greece could
live on almost nothing, so we can say that a person is living under Spartan circumstances. “When I was a student,
I had to live a Spartan existence, but when I look back, I
think it taught me how to live within my means.”

Spat about something 
Quarrel or argument; fight or row or disagreement about

Speak for yourself!

Speak in a monotone voice

Speak up

Speak your mind

Speak your piece

Speaking terms

Speaking the King’s English

Speaking the same language

Speaks volumes

Special treatment

Speed it up!

Speedy recovery

Speedy retreat

Spending binge

Spending spree

Spent emotions

Spew-up your guts.

Sphere of influence

Spic and span 
Sparking; spotless and shiny; neat, tidy and orderly; 

clean as a whistle. 
“Please, clean the house from top to
bottom and make everything spic and span before my
mother comes to visit.” “Sharon spent seven hours using
chemical cleaning agents and oven cleaner before she
was finally satisfied that her kitchen stove was absolutely
spic and span.” “When there is a military inspection in
the barracks, everything must be absolutely spic and
span.”

Spice of life

Spill the beans 
Tell us all you know; don’t try to keep it secret; don’t try
to protect anyone by not telling on them; inform on
someone. “Tell me who did it! If you don’t spill the
beans now, we’ll beat your brains in.” “I promised my
brother that I would never tell mother and spill the beans
that he was the one who started the forest fire behind our
house.” “If you spill the beans and tell us who set up the
drug deal, we’ll try to get the judge to show leniency in
your case.”

Spill your guts 
Tell all; spew out everything that you know; confess up
the whole truth; reveal under threat of harm what your
questioner demands to know. “As classmates, my gang
and I spray-painted our teacher’s new car pink, but after
little Jimmy Fink spilled his guts to the principal, we
were suspended from school for three weeks.” “BlackJack-Johnny told me that if I ever spilled my guts to the
cops, he’d personally murder me.” “If you don’t spill
your guts right now, and tell us where the diamonds are,
we’ll cut out your tongue.”

Spin a yarn

Spine-chilling

Spineless wonder coward

Spinning lies 
Just as a spider ….. so a liar may be said to be spinning a
web of deceit

Spit and polish 
Just as soldiers used to spit and polish their boots, so …

Spit it out 
Speak out the truth; out with it; don’t hesitate or hold
anything back.

Spitting image 
Look-alike; exact resemblance;

Splinter group

Split decision 
A tie because no body could say one was better than the
other; the judges were equally divided in their opinion.

Split hairs 
Make unnecessary distinctions

Split second

Split the difference 
Divide up the remaining sum equally;

Split the spoils 
Divide up the money gained through illegal means;

Splitting headache

Splurge on something 
Suddenly spend an excessive amount of money on something you want. 

Spoiling for a fight

Spoilsport 
Some one who ruins the fun for others

Sponge-off someone

Spoon-feed

Sporadic 
Irregular, sporadic, infrequent.

Spot check

Spot on the mark!

Spot on! 
Exactly; bull’s eye; that’s right!

Spotless record

Spotlessly clean

Spread like wildfire

Spread rumors

Spread the word.

Spread your wings

Spread yourself too thin 
Try to do too many things at once so that you little success at any thing; try to do too many jobs at once; attempt to perform too many duties simultaneously; take
on too many obligations so that you cannot fulfill them
all. “If you take on too many duties at one time, and you
spread yourself too thin, you’ll be unlikely to be successful in any of your duties” If you accept too many invitations to social functions and spread yourself too thin,
you’ll be unlikely to have any private time for yourself.”
“Thank you for your invitation to become president of
The Siam Society, but I am afraid that I have been
spreading myself to thin lately, and I would not have the
time to perform my obligations well.”

Spring chicken 
Young woman. “My maiden Aunt Maude must be seventy if she is a day. She’s no spring chicken.”

Sprout wings

Spruced-up 
Make your self look clean-cut and well-groomed and respectable to meet the occasion. “Comb your hair, and
wash your face, and change your shirt, son. Get yourself
all spruced-up to look proper when Auntie Alice comes
to see us.” “We wouldn’t want you to make the wrong
impression on the minister when he comes to visit us, so
get yourself spruced up and looking respectable before
he arrives.” “When my big brother used to get ready to
go out on a date, he would get himself all spruced-up and
looking his best.”

Spunky attitude

Spur of the moment 
Done without taking time to think;

Square meal 
A fully nourishing meal. “I have not had a good square
meal in the last four days.”

Square off

Square-shooter

Squashed in like sardines 

Squawk about

Squeaky clean

Squeeze it out of you

Squeeze through

Squiggle and squirm

Squirm out of something

Stab in the back 
Just as an enemy might creep-up behind you and, literally, stab you with a knife from behind, so a friend might
figuratively betray you in an unexpected way.

Stab in the dark

Stack the deck

Staff of life Bread;

Stake out

Stalling for time

Stamp out 
Just as one might put out a fire by stamping on it with
your boots, so we may say we want to stamp out a disease or something undesirable to society. “Use a condom. Help stamp out aids!” “We have almost stamped
out tuberculosis and malaria, but according to medical
records, there are still frequent cases being reported.”
“Every good citizen should try do his duty in helping to
stamp out drug addiction.”

Stand alone

Stand and deliver.

Stand and stare

Stand firm

Stand for what you believe-in.

Stand in good stead

Stand tall.

Stand the test of time

Stand up and be counted

Stand up for someone

Stand up for your rights

Stand your ground.

Standing ovation

Stand-up and be counted.

Starchy

Star-crossed lovers
“Romeo and Juliet were star-crossed lovers, because they were caught in the middle of a feud between
their families.”

Star-gazing

Staring fear in the face

Staring you in the face

Stark raving mad

Star-struck

Start from scratch 
Start from the beginning; scrape and scratch up enough 
money to get started; start with nothing and begin to
build up from there. “Some clever, young graduates in
computer technology have been able to start their own
software companies from scratch and become quite successful.” “Scott had hardly a penny in his pocket when he
came from the Mid-West to New York, but through perseverance and endurance he was able to start from
scratch and build up a printing house that made him a
millionaire by the turn of the century.” “When my forefathers came to America from Holland two hundred years
ago, they had to start from scratch and work hard to establish themselves.”

Start off with a clean slate

Start something
“…Do you want to start something? Do you want to
start a fight?”

Start tongues wagging

Start-off on the wrong foot
Get off to a bad start; to begin by showing your bad side;
to commence by showing your worst side instead of your
best side. “Start-off the way you mean to carry on, because if you start off on the wrong foot, it will be hard to
convince others to regain confidence in you.” “I am
afraid that I was a little rude and abrupt. I am sorry that
we started-off on the wrong foot. Let’s start over again
and try to get-off on the right foot this time.” “If you
once get started-off on the wrong foot and make the
wrong impression, the customer will not be as receptive
to the rest of your sales pitch.”

Stash away

State of total collapse 
In a condition of total exhaustion;

Staunch supporter 
A strong, loyal and committed follower, devotee, backer.

Stay in-touch 
Continue on following the same course oactions.

Stay put 
Don’t move; remain where you are;

Stay the course

Stay where you are! 
Don’t move. “Stay where you are. Don’t move put yur
hands up in the air.”

Staying power 
Endurance; perseverance;

Steal the march on 
Start before; get ahead of; get in ahead of.

Steal the show 
Get all the attention; upstage everyone else.

Steal your thunder

Steamed-up

Steamroller someone

Steer clear of someone 
Just as a boat will steer clear of the rocks, so we may
steer clear and stay away from a person who will cause
trouble; avoid contact with someone who will be a bad
influence. “I would steer clear of that fellow if I were
you or he will lead you into trouble for sure.” “Steer
clear of people with bad motives who will be a bad influ-
ence.” “I try to steer clear of my old, drinking friends
now that I am sober and on the wagon.”

Stem the tide

Step aside

Step down

Step on a hornet’s nest

Step on someone

Step out of line

Start from the beginning

Step on it! 
Just as you step on the gas pedal to make the car go
faster, so you can tell someone to step on it to make them
hurry and go more quickly; hurry up! Go more quickly!
“You’d better step-on-it and bet yourself dressed, or
you’ll be late for the ball.” “Hurry up! If we don’t step on
it, …

Step-out-of-line

Stepping stone

Stern warning 
Strong and serious, strict and severe warning;

Stick around

Stick by someone

Stick it to someone

Stick out like a sore thumb

Stand out; appear to be out of place;

Stick out your tongue at 
To open your mouth and stick out your tongue as a gesture if disrespect and defiance. “Little Charlie was given
six strokes of the ruler over his open hand for sticking his
tongue out at the teacher.” “Connie stuck her tongue out
at her mother as a sign of defiance.” “Children in school
often stick their tongues or at one another as a way of
showing dislike or disagreement.”

Stick to the point 
Stay on topic and don’t ramble or wander off onto unrelated matters.

Stick to your guns 
Just adhere to your judgment and do not waver under
pressure.

Stick together 
Be unified and loyal to one another.

Stick with it 
Keep up the effort without stopping.

Stick your neck out 
Take a chance in order to help another.

Stick your nose in where it doesn’t belong
Be curious about other people’s business that does not
concern you.

Stick your nose into 
Get involved in what is none of your business.

Stick-in-the-mud 
Killjoy; someone who spoils the fun for all of the others.

Stickler for detail 
A person who pays very close and strict attention to the
minutest facts and expects those under him to do so as
well;

Stick-up for somebody 
Stand in and protect someone who is being attacked by
others. Kids … opinions …office politics

Sticky fingers 
Hands that will steal; 

Sticky situation

Stiff somebody 
Cheat them.

Stiff-necked 
Rigid and prudish.

Still waters run deep

Stinging remark

Stinks to high heaven

Stir up trouble

Stirring emotions

Stock-up on

Stomp on

Stone broke 
Having no more money than a stone.

Stone, cold sober

Stone’s throw away 
within a stone’s throw away

Stood-up 
Date didn’t show up

Stooge 
To be a stooge: someone that others take to be dullwitted or stupid; one who has been fooled or cheated;
taken advantage of; the butt of the joke; the one that others always laugh at.

Stool pigeon 
Snitch;

Stoop to conquer

Stop at nothing

Stop dead in your tracks.

Stop fidgeting!

Stop giving me the runaround.
Stop talking around in circles and telling lies and come to
the point and tell me what I want to know.

Stop hounding me. 
Stop bullying me; harassing me; complaining about me;
picking on me; going after me (the way a hunting hound
dog follows a scent. “Stop hounding me, I’m doing the
best I can, and if you keep pushing me around, I won’t be
able to concentrate at all.” “If you don’t stop hounding
me for money, I’ll never pay you one red cent.” “If my
foreman doesn’t stop hounding me in the workplace, I
will personally go to where he lives and set his house on
fire.”

Stop meddling. 
Don’t try to influence the business of others, especially if
you are doing it for your own benefit; don’t try to change
the course of events in someone else’s life when it’s none
of your business; keep your nose out of other people’s
business; let people do what they want without trying to
tell them what you think they should do.

Stop ranting-and-raving. 
No longer behave in an angry, furious, enraged, wild,
crazed, frenzied, raging manner and quiet down. “If
you’ll stop your ranting-and-raving for a moment, I’ll try
to explain to you what went wrong.” Mother kept ranting-and-raving and raging about father’s outrageous behavior for so long, that the old man eventually had a
nervous breakdown.” “Father’s mental condition got
worse and worse, so that when they could not stop him 
from ranting and raving about the real and imagined
wrongs mother had subjected him to, we finally had to
have him committed to a mental home.”

Stop rattling my chain 
Just as we can rattle a dog’s chain, so, figuratively, we
may say we rattle a person’s chain when we want to
bother and upset or complain about him.

Stop snooping around

Stop squabbling. 
Stop fighting and arguing; bickering about nothing;
wrangling with one another; quarrelling over insignificant points. “If you two kids don’t stop your squabbling,
I’m going to send you to bed early.” “I don’t know why
the staff is squabbling to see who gets to go on holiday
first, because the longer one waits, the better the weather
gets.” “The maid is always squabbling with the driver,
and if she doesn’t stop, she’ll soon have to start looking
for a new job.”

Stop your babbling. 
Stop talking nonsense.

Stop your bawling. 
Stop crying; stop weeping and sobbing. “Stop your bawling and wipe away your tears and try to behave like a big
boy, instead of a crybaby.” “If you stop your bawling and
sobbing and listen for a minute, I can explain everything.” “Stop your bawling over spilt milk, or I’ll give
you something worse to cry about.”

Stop your bickering. 
Stop your arguing, quarreling; squabbling, fighting,
back-biting, complaining and disagreeing. “I wish you
two would stop your bickering and learn to get along
with one another.” “If you two kids don’t stop your bickering, I’ll lock you in separate rooms and not let you out
until you promise to behave.” “I’m tired of arguing with
you. Stop you’re bickering and complaining or I’ll stuff a
sock in your mouth.”

Stop your carping 
Quit your moaning and complaining.

Stop your gawking 
Quit your staring at people.

Stop your squawking. 
Quit complaining.

Stop your sulking 
Quit being so moody and resentful.

Stop your tomfoolery. 
Quit fooling around.

Stop your yammering. 
Quit complaining and going on and on.

Stop-on-a-dime 
Put on the brakes and stop immediately;

Storm in a teacup 
A big fuss about nothing important.

Storm the barricades …… ; 
Storm into

Storm the place

Storming mad

Straight as an arrow

Straight away

Straight from the horse’s mouth
Just as though you might get a hot tip

Straighten things out 
Resolve a disagreement; clear up a misunderstanding;
discuss what conflict; settle a problem; get things 
straight. “We had a meeting to straighten out our disagreement about who was responsible.” “My brother and
I have straightened out our misunderstanding about who
will inherit the plot of land near the river.” “After some
negotiations, we straightened out the points of conflict
and made an agreement.” “My husband and I have
straightened-out our differences, and we hope to live in
harmony from here on in.”

Straight-faced

Strained relations

Stranded 
Left all alone, high and dry.

Stranger-than-fiction 
Sometimes, an actual fact is more impossible to believe
than a fictional idea of the imagination. “True life can be
stranger than fiction.”

Strapped for cash

Straw man

Stray from the path

Streetwise 
Learned from living on the street

Stress and strain

Stretch of the imagination

Stretch of time

Stretch the rules

Stretch the truth

Stretch your legs

Strike a balance

Strike like lightening

Strike out 
Just as in baseball after three strikes you are out so we
can sat that we strike out when we try to … and …fail

Strike out for 
Set off

Strike up a friendship 
Meet somebody new and become friends; become friends
because of common interests or feelings; make an acquaintance with someone that quickly develops into
friendship. “I’ve struck up a friendship with a new colleague at the office, and we often travel together on
weekends.” “Vincent struck up a friendship with one of
the other artists that lasted for the rest of their lives.”
“When I met my sister-in-law for the first time we immediately struck up a friendship.”

Strike up an acquaintanceship

Strike while the iron is hot

Strikes my fancy

Striking appearance

Stringing a line 
Telling someone a long string of lies in order to get his
confidence so you can the cheat or deceive him. stringing someone along

Stroke of genius

Stroke of luck

Strong arm someone

Strong impression

Struck dead

Struck dumb

Struck me funny

Struggle on

Strung-out

Strung-up 
Hanged by a rope by the neck until dead.

Stubborn as a mule

Stuck on your self 
Thinking you are the best and most important; that no
one is as good as you; conceited; self-important; proud;
self-centered; self-absorbed. “Don’t be so stuck on yourself. There are a lot of people around here that are better
than you.” “Herbert used to be pretty stuck on himself
back when he was in college, but, now, that he is working out in the competitive, professional world, he has realized that he has got a lot to learn.” Some people are so
stuck on themselves that they hardly even realize that
anybody but themselves even exists.”

Stuck-up 
Sticking your nose up in the air; thinking you are better
than others; with an air of superiority; haughty; arrogant;
conceited; snobbish. “That high-society hostess, Calliope, is nothing but a stuck-up, snotty-nosed rich bitch.”
“Don’t go around sticking your nose up in the air, looking as if you were better than everybody else, or people
will dislike you and think you are arrogant and snobbish.” “Often people who go around looking stuck-up are
actually hiding a personal sense of inferiority.”

Stuffed-shirt

Stumble across 
stumble upon

Stumbling block

Stunning beauty

Stunning results 
Surprising and unexpected results;

Sub for someone 
Act as a substitute in another’s place; to step-in and temporarily fulfill the duties of another. “Our teacher, Mrs.
Sullivan, had to take pregnancy leave, so the school got a
temporary teacher to sub for her.” “In the great American
game of baseball, they always have someone who can
sub for a player or coach, in case that person is not present or able to perform his role as a team member.”
“When the Foreign Minister is out of the country, he asks
an acting deputy minister to step in and sub for him while
he is away.”

Submissive woman 
Obedient, compliant, subservient, acquiescent female. 
“The days when you could find a subservient woman
seem to be over.” “I used to have a housekeeper who was
very humble, subservient, self-controlled and radiant.”

Subtle approach

Subtle hint

Succinct and to the point

Succumb to 
Give in to; be overcome; overwhelmed; overpowered by
Desire…disease… emotion

Such is life 
That is just how life is. “You cannot have everything you
want. Such is life.” *

Suck up to somebody

Sudden idea

Suddenly realize

Suddenly snap to 
Return to consciousness

Suffer a setback

Suffer fools gladly

Suffer the consequences

Suffer your just reward

Sugar-coated

Suggestive remark

Suit yourself

Suits me fine!

Sullen look

Summer sweetheart

Sunny disposition

Sunny side of the street 
Looking on the bright side of things

Supposedly 
Presumably; apparently; it is assumed; if we believe what
we hear.

Sure enough 
As expected

Surge ahead 
Push forwards

Surly look

Survival of the fittest

Suspicious circumstance

Suspicious-looking

Swagger about 
Strut and parade proudly and boldly about . Surly swagger

Swallow the bait

Swallow your pride

Swap shop 
A shop where you can trade one item for another.

Swap stories 
Tales

Sweating blood

Sweat-it-out
endure with forbearance;

Sweaty hands 
The sweating hands of a workman. “Get your sweaty
hands off me! Who do you think you are? I’d thank you
to remember your place, and save us both from losing
face.” 

Sweep aside

Sweep the floor with

Sweep under the carpet 
Cover yourself casually by hiding the evidence temporarily so no one will notice and you won’t get into trouble.

Sweep up the mess

Sweet dreams

Sweeten the deal 
To offer an incentive to make the deal more attractive; to
add extra benefits to seal the deal; to throw in something
that the client wants that will make him more receptive to
signing the agreement; to offer a bribe. “We told the contractor that we would give him a twenty percent kickback
to sweeten the deal if he agreed to accept our terms.”
“Just to sweeten the deal we decided to throw in the right
to stock options as an extra benefit.” “They said they
would offer me one million cash under the table to
sweeten the deal, but I refused on ethical grounds.”

Sweeten the pill 
Just as some pills are sugar-coated to make them easier
to swallow, so we say... 

Swell-headed 
Thinking you are bigger than you are; conceited; full of
yourself; thinking that you know everything; thinking
you are the greatest; conceited; all puffed-up and vain.
“Don’t be so swell-headed, just because you won the big
debate. Be humble in the thought that next time you
might lose it to someone more-clever than you.” “Have
you ever noticed that people who are the most swellheaded are usually ignorant of the fact that they are actually levels below those who are better-read and bettereducated” “She’s pretty swell-headed since she married
the most rich and handsome man in Boston, but she’ll
come down-to-earth when she realizes that the lives of
the rich and famous are not what they are cut out to be.”

Sweltering heat

Swept-off your feet 
Having lost your balance in romantic ecstasy

Swim against the current

Swim with the current

Swing into action

Swing of things

Switched-on 
Clever, quick and well-informed.

Sworn enemies

Sworn in

Surly swagger 

Table-hopping 
Moving from one table of friends to another and another

in a nightclub.

Tacky-looking 
Something cheap and in poor taste; tawdry; low-class.

Tag along

Tag end of the day

Tail between your legs 
Running away in fear someone superior to escape punishment; to avoid admonishment;

Take a back seat 
Accept a lower position;

Take a balling-out

Take a beating 
Just as one may take a physical beating, so one can take a
beating financially, when business does not go your way.

Take a breather 
Take a moment to catch your breath; take a break, pause,
rest.

Take a cat nap

Take a chance

Take a chance on love

Take a crack at it 
To try to see if you can do something.

Take a dim view 
Disapprove; find unacceptable; look down upon with
condemnation; condescension; view with censure; protest
against. “Lord Hendricks takes a dim view of his favorite
niece wanting to marry a rock singer.” “The Prime Minister takes a dim view of the opposition questioning his
war record.” “I must say that I take a dim view of gay
couples becoming adoptive parents.”

Take a drubbing 
Be defeated; take a beating; take a thrashing. “We don’t
want to take a drubbing in next weeks rugby match, so
we’d better practice and be ready to give it all we’ve
got.” “We were totally thrashed in the first three games
of the season and took such a drubbing that we were
ashamed to show our faces.” “If you don’t do what you
are told, you’ll take a drubbing that you won’t forget for
the rest of your life.”

Take a hammering 
Subject to criticism; badly defeated; suffer condemnation. “The president’s position on raising taxes has really
been taking a hammering in the press media lately.” “The
Canadian ice-hockey team really took a hammering in
this year’s Winter Olympics.” “The bill to legalize abortion is really taking a hammering in Congress at the moment.”
Take a hike Get out of here! Go away! “Can’t you see where you are
not wanted? Take a hike!”

Take a hint

Take a licking by some

To be given a thrashing; to take a beating one

Take a liking to someone 
After meet someone, begin to like the person immediately.

Take a little nip 
Accept the offer of a small swallow of whisky or other
alcoholic drink;

Take a load off your mind.
Be relieved of a psychological burden; act so as to be
freed from a worry; out of a predicament; solve an anxiety-causing dilemma; become mentally free of; talk
about an intellectual concern to relieve the stress it is
causing. “Now, I have signed the contract guaranteeing
my occupancy of the house, it takes a real load off my
mind.” “Tell me about your troubles and perhaps it will
help you take a load off your mind.” “Once I passed the
entrance exam, it was a real load off my mind and the
minds of my parents too.”

Take a long hard look at yourself.

Observe and analyze yourself and act in accordance with what you see.

Take a nose dive Just a plane can take a nose dive and crash, so can the
best-laid plans of men.

Take a powder. 
Disappear for a while. Go to the ladies room and powder
your nose.

Take a punishing

Take a ribbing

Take a shine to someone 
Develop a liking for; become fond of; become partial to;

Take a shot in the dark.

Take a stab at 
Give it a try; make an attempt;

Take a stand 
Take a position on a

Take a telling-off 
Be scolded;

Take a tip from me 
Let me give you a hint and a bit of advice.

Take advantage of someone

Take after someone 
Resemble in appearance or behavior;

Take by storm

Take care of business

Take care of someone

Take care of yourself

Take center stage 
Make yourself the center of attention.

Take comfort in

Take credit for 
To falsely claim that you performed work that was actually done by another; to accept praise for the achievements performed by someone else; to pretend that the
accomplishment of a good result was due to your effort
and/or leadership. “My boss always takes credit for the
high quality of the work that I do.” “I don’t like it when
someone takes personal credit for what was actually the
result of good teamwork.” “The CEO took credit for single-handedly doubling the profit margin, when, actually,
the credit should have gone to marketing manager.” 

Take exception to 
Be offended; take offence or umbrage. “I take exception
to what you said about...

Take five 
Time to take a five minute break as, for example musicians might take a break between playing sets of songs or
a film director might call a pause between scenes; a
break in a teamwork activity. The band announced they
were going to take five so they could go to the bar and
refresh their drinks.” The film director said to take five
for a quick costume change.” “The chairman told the
committee to take five to clear their minds before going
onto the next point on the agenda.”

Take for granted

Take great pains to 
Make a big effort;

Take it back! 
Apologize for what you said. Say that it is not true.
“Apologize. Take it back. Recant what you said. Say it is
not so.”

Take it from me. 
Listen to my advice; let me tell you what I know from
experience.

Take it in stride. 
Accept the setback as if you expected it and move on.

Take it in the neck.

Take it like a man.

Take it on the chin

Take it or leave it.

Take it out on someone

Take it with a grain of salt.

Take liberties with

Take my word for it.

Take no account. 
Don’t believe it; pay no attention; give no heed; don’t
take seriously. “Take no account of Marion’s threats to
kill her self. She’s been talking like that for years.”
“Take no account of the prime minister’s vow to
straighten out the economy; he has no choice but to make
empty promises.” “Take no account of anything Jim says
because he is a compulsive liar.”

Take offence 
Feel offended, feel insulted by; take umbrage at; to be
hurt and angry because of something someone said or did
to you; to be affronted; to feel upset because of someone’s behavior to you. “The Prime Minister took offence
at the opposition’s implication he was not working in the
country’s best interest.” “Mother always takes offence at
the suggestion that father left her for a more sociallyacceptable woman.” “Don’t be so touchy and take offence when people refer to your sexual preference.”
“Don’t take offence every time someone mentions that
you come from an underdeveloped country.”

Take over Seize control; 

Take potluck 
Eat whatever is left-over in the pot; eat whatever is on hand;

Take pride in

Take quick action

Take root

Take sides

Take someone for a ride 
To cheat someone of money by leading him along a path
of false hopes; to promise to help someone to get money
while actually deceiving him; to build up someone’s
hopes only to take advantage of him. “We got taken for a
ride when we trusted Kelly to bring us a return of one
hundred percent on our investment.” “I really got taken
for a ride when I let your stock broker convince me to
buy those stock options in Canadian gold mining.”
“Colin really too Beatrice for a ride by promising her a
better future if she would only marry him.”

Take someone to task

Take something in the wrong way.
See or hear something and get the wrong impression and
react in the wrong way for the wrong reason.

Take something lying down

Take the bad with the good

Take the bait

Take the bull by the horns

Face the situation or challenge and fight your best to
overcome it.

Take the easy way out 
Choose the path that requires the least effort; find the
way out of a situation that takes the least amount of
work; follow the course of least resistance; do things the
lazy way. “When students have a choice between fulfilling a task by working hard on their own or by getting
help from their friends, they usually take the easy way
out.” “You can take the blame for your mistake and tell
the truth, or you can take the easy way out and lie your
way out of it.” “Why do things the hard way, when you
can take the easy way out?”

Take the heat

Take the long way round

Take the plunge

Take the rap for someone.

Be punished for someone else’s crime or misdeed;

Take the weight off your feet.

Take the words out of someone’s mouth

Take things as they are. 
“We have to accept things as they are
and take things as they come.”

Take time out 
Take a short pause or break from sport or work for rest and recreation.

Take to something like a duck to water

Take to task 
Blame someone for something he has done wrong.

Take turns 
First one and then the other, one-by-one.

Take umbrage 
Take offence; feel offended; feel indignation. “Please
don’t take umbrage when I correct your manners. I’m
only trying to help you.” “Some people are so oversensitive that they take umbrage at even the slightest hint of
criticism.” “Michael takes umbrage every time someone
questions him about his credentials.”

Take unawares

Take under your wing

Take up where you left off

Take you cue from

Take your breath away breathtaking

Take your hat off to

Take your punishment ………… ; ……. take your lumps

Take your time

Take-in someone who needs help.
“When I was just an orphan child, I was taken in by
a kind old couple who took care of and raised me as if I
were their own child.” “Be careful not to take in stray
dogs and people who may later fight or bite you.”

Taken aback 
Shocked;

Taken at face value

Taken by surprise

Taken down a peg or two 
Humbled; seen in a position of lower esteem;

Taken for a ride 
Just as the old gangsters used to take someone for a ride
and then kill him, so we can say we have been taken for a
ride when a dishonest person makes us his victim.

Taken for granted

Taken in by someone 
Fooled and deceived

Taken in small doses 
Bearable in short periods of exposure. “Martin can be
funny, but he is so extreme, he must be taken in smack
dises.”

Taken seriously

Taken to task 
Criticized for one’s action; held responsible for a mistake; blamed for poor performance. “The chief accountant has been severely taken to task for failing to provide
the required documentation.” “The Prime Minister has
been taken to task by the opposition for failing to respond to the recent catastrophe quickly enough.” “I was
severely taken to task by the principal for the prank of
framing his picture in a toilet seat.”

Taken to the cleaners 
Cheated of everything by deceitful means by tricksters.

Taken-in by a trick Fooled 

Takes two to tango 
Just as you need two to dance the tango, it takes two to
fight. “If only one wants to fight and the other does not,
how can there be e fight? It takes two to tango.” 

Taking a beating
Losing money or support or due to strong negative forces
(just as boxers take a beating from strong opponents);
losing badly in a competition (sports or otherwise). “Our
firm took a severe beating from foreign competititors
when the borders were opened after the free trade agreement.” “Stock prices took a severe beating due to APEC
cutbacks in oil production.” “The labor party took a severe beating in the last election because they wanted to
pull troops out of the Middle East.”

Taking a chance 
...taking a chance on love

Take note of

Talk ‘til you’re blue in the face

Talk big

Talk mumbo-jumbo

Talk of the town

Talk gibberish

Talk out of 
Convince someone to change his mind and not do something he intends to do.

Talk rot 
Speak nonsense;

Talk sense 

talk sense instead of nonsense

Talk shop

Talk some sense into his head

Talk through your hat

Talk turkey 
Talk straight and bluntly about the problem.

Tall order 
n order that is hard to fulfill;

Tall story/tall tale

Tangible evidence 
Concrete, physical, solid facts and details to prove a point.
Tangle with someone

Tangled-web

Tangy taste

Tart-up 
Try to make something ordinary look beautiful;

Tasty morsel 
Tasty tidbit; good-tasting crumb or little bit or piece.
“Just as we may say a cookie crumb is a tasty morsel, so
we mat say that a pretty little woman would also be a
nice morsel.

Tattered to threads

Tattle-tale

Tax the imagination 
Stretch or strain the imagination; imposes a heavy demand upon the imagination; difficult to comprehend; impossible to understand; beyond comprehension; unimaginable, unthinkable. “It taxes the imagination to attempt 
to comprehend the vastness of the universe.” “What the
human mind is capable of understanding compared to the
endless realms of wisdom the mind is unable to grasp
taxes the imagination.” “It taxes the imagination to try to
how understand how low some people can go to achieve
their own evil ends.”

Teacher’s pet 
The teacher’s favorite pupil.

Tear down 
Just as one may knock or tear down a building, so one
may tear down another’s argument.

Tear holes in 
To find fault with something by pointing out its defects.
“The defense attorney will tear holes in our argument …

Tear into somebody

Tear to pieces

Tear up 
Just as one may literally tear up a piece of paper, so one
may be said to tear up a contract when the parties are in
an irresolvable dispute.

Tearing my hair out

Tearing my heart out

Tear-jerker 
Sob story; sad story that is sure to make you cry, usually
a lie.

Teed-off 
Peeved; ticked-off; pissed-off.

Teeming with activity 
Just as packs of animals or a hive of bees swarm over a
small place or area, so we may say that a public place is
teeming with activity. “At 10 a.m. there are very few
people about in Siam Square, but at noon, it is suddenly
teeming with activity”.

Teetering on he brink

Teeth on edge 
“The elders have eaten sour grapes and the children have
set their teeth on edge.”

Teething troubles

Tell a white lie

Tell me another one! 
I don’t believe you! Tell me another lie. “

Tell someone off 
Give them a verbal reprimand; a tongue lashing

Tell someone what’s what
Explain the way things are; how the situation is; the way
it is. “Let me tell you what’s what. I decide everything.
You follow orders, and never act on your own.”

Temper tantrum

Tempest in a teapot

Tenacious 
… Never letting-go; unrelenting, stubborn ….

Tendency towards

Test balloon 
Just as meteorologists may send up a test balloon to
measure atmospheric data, so a business venture may be
said to send up a test balloon when it does preliminary
market research.

Test the waters

Testing times

Testy situation 
Highly-charged emotional situation. 

Thank your lucky stars

That cuts no ice with me. 
I am not impressed with that; that has no effect on me
whatsoever; I don’t care what you say; I am not moved.

That does it! 
That’s all I can stand; that’s enough; you’ve gone too far
this time and I’ve reached the breaking point; lost my
temper with you. “That does it! I’ve had just about
enough! ……..

That doesn’t faze me. 
I am not impressed.

That hits the spot 
Exactly what I wanted to taste; delicious; what was desired.

That makes my day!

That makes two of us.

That rings a bell. 
That sounds familiar; I think I have heard that before;
when I hear that it makes me think back to things I
thought I’d forgotten. “When I hear the name
Anaxagoras that rings a bell. Wasn’t he some early
Greek philosopher or something?” “That name rings a
bell. Let me just try to remember where I may have heard
it before.” “The term, ‘holistic’ rings a bell. Let me just
try to remember where I may have heard it before.” “The
name Gallagher rings a bell. Weren’t they our next door
neighbors, back in Tacoma, when I was about six years
old?

That strikes a chord

That strikes home.

That tops everything!

That works for me!

That’ll be the day!

That’ll do the trick 
That’s just what is needed; what the doctor ordered;

That’s a likely story. 
Who is going to believe that? That is sure to be a lie.

That’s a lot of garbage 
What a lot of lies and nonsense

That’s a lot of hooey 
nonsense; gibberish; garbage

That’s a mouthful

That’s a novel idea! 
What an original idea!

That’s all. 
That is all I have to say; now, I’ve covered everything
and there’s nothing more to say.

That’s another matter

That’s it. 
Now I’ve finished talking and that’s what I wanted to
say. That’s it.

That’s life.

That’s my boy! 
Good boy! “When a boy lives-up to his father’s expectations, the father will be proud and pleased and say,
‘That’s my boy.’”

That’s my hobby horse 
Favorite topic; pet peeve; fixed idea that you keep raving
on about. “Racial discrimination against Asian women is
my hobby horse.”

That’s not what I was 
That’s the opposite of what I was hoping for/expecting. bargaining for

That’s stretching it a bit! 
Exaggerating somewhat; saying a thing is more than it is.

That’s the honest-toGod-truth.
I swear by God that I am not lying.

That’s the size of it. 
That’s the way that it is.

That’s the way the ball bounces.

That’s just bad luck; just accept what happens; there’s
nothing you can do about it; tough luck; face your fate;
that’s all you can expect; you seldom get what you want
anyway; that’s the way the world works. “I’m sorry you
didn’t pass the entrance exam, but don’t take it too hard;
that’s the way the ball bounces.” “I wish I had been born
with more intelligence, but what can I do? That’s just the
way the ball bounces.” “You can never be sure if things
will go as you hope. That’s just the way the ball
bounces.” “Don’t be too disappointed you didn’t get the
job you wanted, that’s just the way the ball bounces.”

That’s the way things go.

That’s worth considering.

Thaw in relations

The apple of my eye 
This is an old Biblical quotation from the book of
Psalms, in which a father tells his daughter she is ‘the
apple of his eye.’ The idiom has survived but it now
means that someone that you most want and like to see;
favorite girl or person; someone you want and desire to
see the most. “Oh, my darling, you are the apple of my
eye. I love you so much, that just the sight of you brings
me joy.” “Jane Billings is the apple of my eye, the girl I
would most like to have, but she looks upon me as nothing more than a dirty, old man.” “What a joy to see you
sweetheart; you are the apple of my eye.”

The balance of justice

The ball’s in your court. 
Just as tennis player must hit the ball when it comes to
his side of the net, so

The best of both worlds

The bigger they are the harder they fall.

The birds and the bees

The bubble burst. 
Just as a soap bubble may burst, so a person’s dream(s)
can suddenly break; or someone might start out a romantic relationship in which everything seems to be going
well until the bubble abruptly bursts; or a group of people can naively believe in an optimistic hope or idea that
turns out to be a false and misleading bust; or a nation’s
delusion that an upcoming economic boom is coming can
also burst like a bubble. “In the 1990’s there appeared to
be an economic boom in Thailand in which financial opportunities would never cease, but when the Baht devaluation came, the bubble suddenly burst.” 

The butt of the joke

The cat’s meow 
The very best; the finest you could desire.

The coast is clear 
No danger in sight, go ahead; nobody id looking;

The crux of the matter 
The heart of the matter; what is at the center of the issue.

The day hell freezes over

The evil eye … ; 
give someone the evil eye

The genuine article 
The real thing as opposed to being a fake or a copy.

The grim reaper 
The figure of the angel of death.

The icing on the cake 
An extra-special, unanticipated part; something good to
top it off; the highpoint; the best bit. “The subway construction was not only finished three months ahead of
deadline, but the icing on the cake was that it was built at
twenty-million below estimated costs.” “The best part of
my new employment package, the icing on the cake, soto-speak, is that I get six a month’s bonus, if I meet my
annual budget.” “Last year I was not only named the best
salesman of the year and promoted to district manager,
but the icing on the cake was a free three-week trip for
two to Hawaii.”

The inner circle

The joke’s on you!

The least you could do

The more the merrier. 
The more people who join in the activity the more fun
there will be; one more is welcome …

The name of the game

The nature of the beast

The next best thing

The onus is on you 
It is up to you to see that this is your own responsibility
and you must choose the right thing to do. “The onus is
on you to make the right choice.”

The point of no return 
The time in the process that there is no possibility of
turning back.

The right spot at the right time

The shoe is on the other foot.

The time is ripe 
Now is the time to act.

The way the wind is blowing

The whole nine yards 
Everything, right through to the last possibility right
through to the end.

The whole shebang 
Everything all together

The whole works 
The whole nine yards; the full shebang; everything; all of
it.

The wrong crowd 
A bad group of friends with the wrong sort of people
who will be a bad influence and lead one astray.”

There’s more than meets the eye

There’s not a lot to be said

They’ll cut you to pieces.

Thick as a brick 
Not very smart.

Thick-as-thieves 
Display honor among thieves; keep a promise not to reveal the secret doings of fellow-thieves; not to betray a
trust agreed upon between robbers; if one tells on the
other guy, he will kill him. “The hit man will never confess or tell the police anything. These gangsters and
mobsters are all as thick as thieves.” “Jerry and Terry
never tell anyone where they go at night or what they do.
The two are as thick-as-thieves.” “My children will never
rat on one another. If one of them does something wrong,
the others will never tell on him. They are as thick as
thieves.”

Thick-skinned 
Insensitive; unfeeling; impervious to injury

Thick-skulled

Things look grim.

Think again.

Think back to

Think better of doing something

Think for yourself

Think nothing of

Think twice

Thinking aloud

Think-nothing-of-it 
Not at all; never mind; it was nothing;

Thin-skinned 
Oversensitive;

Third degree 
Intensive questioning.

Thirst for knowledge

This is the pits 
This is as low as you go. “This place is the pits. It’s about
as low as you can go on skid row.” “My office at the bureau of traffic is the pits. It’s a little room that is painted
gray in which you can hardly see the light of day.”
“American Kids from Beverly Hills will say a university
dormitory room is the pits if it doesn’t have all the mod
cons and luxuries they are used to.”

Thrashed to within an inch of your life

Thrash-it-out Settle a disagreement;

Thrilled-to-bits

Throttle someone 
Choke by the throat; strangle; …; If I ever catch you lying to be again, I’ll literally throttle you.” “I could throttle you for not waking me up on time and making me
miss my plane.” …

Through hell and high water

Through the mill

Through thick and thin

Throw a scare into someone.

Make someone afraid of the consequences; cause reason
for concern; threaten a person if he doesn’t do what you
want; find cause for worry; instill fear of punishment. “It
really threw a scare into me when the company started to
downsize the staff, but luckily I managed to survive.”
“The doctor threw a scare into old Robinson by telling
him that he would die within three years if he didn’t stop
drinking a bottle of whiskey a day.” “I threw a scare into
my secretary when I told her she would have to work on
weekends if she didn’t apply herself and learn to work
more quickly.”

Throw caution to the winds

Throw good money after bad.

Throw it back in your face.

Throw someone off balance

Throw the book at someone
Make someone face the severest penalties applicable under the law or regulations or rulebook; punish severely
for breaking the rules.

Throw up your hands. 
To show through body language that you have given-up
hope of finishing the job or achieving your goal by raising up your hands up above your shoulders; to become so
frustrated by obstacles and opposition that, in desperation, you finally give up the effort; to realize that you
cannot reason with someone and, therefore, stop trying.
“When the city council kept passing legislation that made
further progress impossible, the engineers in charge of
the subway project threw up their hands and pulled out of
the contract.” “The social action delegates met such
strong opposition in their attempt to influence industrial
reform that they finally threw up their hands in despair
and walked out of the meeting.” “I would never listen to
my father’s reasoning, so after years of trying, he finally
threw up his hands and let me do what I want.”

Throw your weight around
Use your strength and power in an aggressive manner to
get what you want, both literally and figuratively.

Throwback into the past

Throw-in-the-towel. 
Give up the attempt; give-in to opposition; stop trying;
quit trying; concede defeat; refrain from competition.
“After losing twenty-two boxing-matches in a row, Lefty
decided it was time to throw in the towel.”

Thrown off balance 

Thrown-in for good measure

Throw-over from the past

Thumb your nose at 
Make a hand gesture of disrespect and disobedience by
putting your thumb to your nose and wiggling your fingers.

Thumbs down/up!

Ticked-off 
Pissed-off; peeved; angry; resentful; annoyed; irritated.

Tickled-pink 
Pleased, happy and delighted;

Tickled-to-death ditto

Tickles my fancy

Tidbits of information

Tie one on

Tied up in knots

Tied-to-your-mother’sapron-strings

Tied-up busy

Tie-up loose ends

Tighten the purse strings Start saving money, cut costs; economize;

Tighten the screws 
Increase pressure.

Tighten your belt a notch 
Learn to economize; live on less income; cut expenses in
order to survive.

Tight-fisted 
Tight-wad; too stingy to part with his money.

Time is of the essence. 
It is necessary to hurry; if we do not finish in time it will
be too late; act quickly to avoid failure or disaster.

Time is ripe

Time is ticking over 
The clock is running; we are running against time.

Time lapse 
The time that has passed since a certain moment.

Time off for good behavior

Time on my hands

Time to bow out 
Often a person in a high rank or position decides or is
forced to bow out (just as a performer bows at the end of
a show) and allow himself to be replaced by someone
younger or more suited to the job. “It was time for the
old CEO to bow out at the end of his term and let the
Vice President take over.” “The Minister of the Interior
has been forced to bow out in the middle of his term due
to health problems.”

Time to turn-in 
Time to go to bed and sleep; time to hit the hay. “It’s
time to turn in and hit the hay.”

Time will tell. 
We don’t know, yet, what the result will be, but if we
wait, we shall see; if we wait, we will know in good time.
“It’s hard to know if the investment will pay-off, but time
will tell.” “We are not exactly sure if the ozone layer will 
continue to disappear to the point that the earth will be
burnt to a crisp. Only time will tell.” 

Time-consuming

Tip of the iceberg 
Just as the tip of the iceberg is just the part that we see,
even though most of it is hidden underneath the surface,
so crime and corruption can be discernable at the surface
even though most of it is hidden below the level and is
not visible. “The Exxon scandal is indicative of the kind
of corrupt management practices were being carried on at
the turn of the new millennium, but what came to light
was just the tip of the iceberg compared to what is still
going on beneath the surface.” “The scant evidence we
have on environmental damage is just the tip of the iceberg compared to the extent of destruction that has yet to
be measured.” “The news we see in the papers about
child sex abuse is just the tip of the iceberg compared to
the actual extent of common worldwide practice.”

Tip the scales 
Upset the balance;

Tip top condition

Tip-off

Tip-top condition

Tit for tat 
Reciprocity;

To a ‘T” 
Perfectly, without a fault.

To all appearances

To be content with

To be tarred and feathered

To be the fall guy 
Someone to fix the blame upon; to take the blame for
others; to be made an example of in the public eye; satisfy the need for someone to have to pay for a mistake; to
take the heat for someone else; be the scapegoat; sacrificial animal; the one who has to fall so that others may
continue to stand; sucker; innocent victim of a cover-up;
someone who has fallen for a sly trick. “During the war,
someone had to be the fall guy for the government’s acting on insufficient intelligence, so they made the director
of the CIA the fall guy, even though it was not really his
fault.” “When there is a scandal in the government, the
public wants someone to pay, someone’s head to fall, but
usually the fall guy is not the one the most deserving of
punishment.” “When big management gets itself in fiscal
trouble, they do not take the blame themselves, but find
some poor slob to blame it on, and then they fire him as
the fall guy.”

To blame for 
To be responsible for the bad effect that resulted fro his
action(s).

To collar someone 
Just as a dog

To cut a long story short 
Say in few words what normally takes many. 

To each his own. 
Everybody is entitled to his own opinion; live and let
live.

To err is human. 
It is only human to make an error or a mistake; human
error must always be expected; we must learn to forgive
human error because man is not perfect. “Please forgive
me for what I have done. I know now it was wrong, but
to err is human, And I beg for you to pardon me for my
mistake.” “We often make the wrong choices in life, but,
as the saying goes, ‘To err is human.’” “To err is human,
so modern technology must always factor in the possibility of human error.”

To have good connections

To make a laughing stock of yourself.

To put it bluntly

To put it mildly 
To understate; without exaggeration;

To say the least

To spice it up

To the best of my knowledge
As far as I know; based on the information I have.

To the bitter end 
Just as an extended length of anchor-chain may be fed
out from a boat into the sea, slowly, bit by bit, until it has
finally reached the bitter end (the last link of the chain,
shackled and fastened to a metal ring in the bottom of the
anchor-well), so a person may be said to continue be continuing to perform his task until the bitter end). “Don’t
give up hope just yet; persevere resolve to the bitter end,
and you’ll survive the storm.” “We knew that our business was going under, but, still, we hung on until the bitter end.” “Greta knew her husband was dying of cancer,
but she stayed by his bedside to the bitter end, lending
him support in his dying days.”

To the end of my days

To the ends of the world 
Ready to do anything; to any lengths to get what you
want.

To the max 
To the maximum; the utmost; the uppermost limit; with
the fullest effort; highest extreme. “The concert hall was
filled to the max when Adele Athena sang her final operatic concert appearance.” “I want to live life up to the
max and die of excess and exhaustion before I am thirty.”
“The test pilot kept increasing the speed of the plane,
right up to the max, without experiencing so much as the
slightest vibration or negative side-effect.”

To tide me over

To top it off 
As thought that were not enough; and then came that last and final blow.

To your credit 

To your heart’s content

To your last gasp 
Up until your dying breath;

Toddle-off … ; … toddle along

Toe the line 
Follow exact orders or commands according to policy,
procedures, directions; do exactly as you are told without
crossing the line or getting out of line; be careful to obey
without question; do exactly as you are told; don’t cross
the line if you don’t want trouble.” “We’ll have to toe the
line and do exactly as we are told if we want to avoid
criticism.” “You’d better toe the line and not make any
decisions on your own, or you will certainly regret it.” “I
am forced to toe the line and not exceed my authority or
I’ll get fired without notice.

Token of appreciation

Tongue tied

Tongue-in-cheek 
Spoken in jest; to say something ironic and untrue just as
a joke; just kidding; to speak insincerely or deceptively.
Tongue-lashing A good scolding; telling-off; reproach; reprimand; dressing-down. “Mother gave Kevin a good tongue-lashing
for stealing small change out of her purse.” “You’ll get a
good tongue-lashing from our supervisor for making
such a stupid mistake.” “One night, I came home drunk,
and, the next day, my wife gave me the tongue-lashing of
my life.”

Tongue-wagging 
Gossiping; talking about people behind their backs; making derogatory negative comments; talking a lot about
nothing; wasting time in useless conversation. “If those
girls don’t stop their tongue-wagging about me, I’ll find
a way of cutting out their tongues.” If you two students
in the back corner don’t stop your tongue-wagging, I’ll
have to ask you to leave the room.” “Stop your hanging
around and tongue-wagging and do some work for a
change or I’ll tell your supervisor on you.”

Too big for your boots

Too big for your britches

Too clever for your own good

Too close for comfort

Too little, too late

Too many irons in the fire
Trying to do too many things at once.

Too much of a good thing

Tooth and nail … 
fighting tooth and nail to …

Top dog 
The number one man; the one at the top of the heap; key
player; at the top of the ladder; king pin; king of the hill;
the man in control; with the most respect. “I want every-
one to understand that I am top dog around here, and that
nobody acts without following my orders.” “The trouble
with Charlie is that he always wants to be top dog and
cannot work as a team player.” “Who is top dog around
here? I want to speak to the man in charge.”

Top drawer 
Best quality; most valued; most high class.

Top notch 
The very best, highest possible level

Top of the heap 
The man who worked his way to the peak of success in
his profession.

Top of the pops 
Number one in the popular music hit parade

Top-of-the-line 
The best and highest quality level or item in the product
line.

Topsy-turvy

Torn between two evils 
Torn between two bad alternatives.

Toss and turn all night

Toss your hat in the ring 
Make a gesture showing that you want to compete or
give something a try.

Tossup between 
Cant decide between on thing and another.

Totally above-board 
Honest and transparent as compared to corrupt and under
the table.

Touch wood 
In English, we say that to touch wood brings good luck
and protects us from bad fortune. “If you say you hope
you will never be friendless and alone, you’d better touch
wood when you say it.”

Touch-and-go 
Uncertain which way the result will o; doubtful outcome.
“At first we were; not sure our business would succeed.
For the first three months, it was touch-and-go, but then,
in the second quarter, sales began to pick up, and we
were out of the woods.” “Mother almost died in the hospital from bronchial pneumonia. At first, it was touchand-go, but, then, her condition began showing slight,
signs of improvement, and eventually she pulledthrough.” “Stock prices were falling rapidly most of the
morning, and it looked like the market might possibly
crash. It was a real touch-and-go situation, but, as the afternoon passed, an unexpected buying binge restored
shareholder confidence.”

Touching scene 
move the heart

Touchy situation

Tough act to follow

Tough as nails

Tough going 
Trying very hard to keep ahead of the work or the problem; very difficult to make progress;

Tough luck

Tough-it-out 
Keep on struggling even when the going gets tough;

Tow the line

Tower of strength 

Toy boy 
When an older woman pays money to a younger man to
become her companion, he is what they call a “toy boy.”
“Gloria has found herself a new, young toy boy and is
showing him off to all her society friends. I wish she
would show a little discretion and realize how ridiculous
she appears.” “Archie lived a comfortable life as a toy
boy, for about fifteen-years, until he started approaching
the age of thirty-five and found that he was no longer in
demand.” “In the twenties, rich American widows used
to go to spend their winters in Venice and take themselves a toy boy, but during the depression the fashion
unfortunately faded.”

Track down

Track record

Traffic congestion. 
traffic deadlock

Traffic jam 
When there are so many cars and vehicles on the road or
the flow of traffic narrows down and stops or comes to a
standstill.

Trail-off and stop

Trash can 
Dustbin; garbage can.

Trashy talk 
Low dirty, scummy gossipy conversation

Tread on someone’s toes

Treat someone 
like dirt Behave towards someone in a demeaning and cruel fashion;

Trend-setters

Trial and error 
Looking for an answer by trying and seeing your mistakes. “Much of what we consider to be true science was
discovered by trial and error.

Trial balloon

Trials and tribulations

Trick of the trade

Trickle down 
Justas

Tricky character

Tricky situation

Trigger a reaction

Trigger effect

Trip someone up

Trivial remarks 
Trifling, silly, petty, insignificant, unimportant comments. “I wish you would spare me your trivial remarks
and say something sensible for a change.”

Troubled waters

Troubling thought

Trudging along

True blue Loyal and faithful to the end.

True grit

True to nature

True to one another 

True-to-life

Trump card

Trumped-up charges 
Made-up, invented, fabricated, false accusations of
wrongdoing,

Truth or consequences . 
Tell the truth or pay the consequences. ..

Try in vain

Try one’s hand.
try one’s luck; take a crack at

Try one’s patience

Try this on for size

Try your utmost

Trying situation

Trying to find yourself

Tug-of-war

Tune in on the conversation

Tune in/out 
Tune out the noise of. ………tune out the noise of
traffic.

Tunnel vision
Turbulent times

Turn a blind eye 
turn a blind eye to …

Turn a deaf ear to 
Refuse to listen to a request; prêt end not to have heard
someone; pay no attention; continually ignore; neglect to
act on a demand; refuse to listen; decline to listen after
being directed to do so. “Because the teachers continued
to turn a deaf ear to students’ demands, the students
burned down the school house.” “Since company management officials have always turned a deaf ear to workers union has threatened go on strike.” “If you continue
too turn a deaf ear to warnings about smoking being hazardous to your health, you may get lung cancer.” “The
mayor is going to loose the next election because he has
been turning a deaf ear to any issues that involve helping
to improve conditions for local business development.”

Turn against someone

Turn back the clock

Turn belly-up 
Just as a ship can roll over and turn belly-up, so a business

Turn on your best friend

Turn out for the best

Turn over a new leaf 
Change your behavior; stop your bad conduct; begin
anew; start over; start afresh; change course. “When his
bad manners started costing him money, he decided it
was time to turn over a new leaf and behave him self
more properly.” “When Congressman Black’s secret,
sexual activities became public knowledge, he swore to
turn over a new leaf to avoid further scandal.” “Teacher
told me that if I did not turn over a new leaf and start
studying harder, she would fail me and make me repeat 
the class.”

Turn over in your grave 
Be so angry as to … after death

Turn tail and run
Turn tail and run away

Turn the other cheek 
Do not react with anger when people hurt or insult you;
remain passive in the face of offence, as if to turn your
face the other way and allow them to slap you on the
other side; show passive resistance as if to allow them to
do it again; forgive and do not retaliate (for retaliation
simply leads to more aggressiveness); don’t oppose hate
with hate; replace anger and hate with love and peace
instead. “People who hurt your feelings often do so because they don’t know any better, when this happens,
simply turn the other cheek.” “When someone hurts you
out of ignorance, turn the other cheek and forgive them.”
“When ever someone does something to anger or hurt
me, I turn the other cheek and do something good for
them. The only way to stop hate is through love.”

Turn the tables

Turn up your nose at 
To stick your nose up high in the air, as if to show that
you are above someone in station or situation, or to show
that you consider yourself too good for a position or task
you consider beneath your rank or level.”

Turn upon someone 
Turn around upon an ally of friend and suddenly be
against him/her. “I thought I always could trust Barbara,
but one day she turned upon me and ceased to behave as
a friend.” 

Turn your back on a friend

Turned on/off

Turned out for the best

Turns me on

Turns my stomach 
Makes me sick.

Twelve sharp 
Exactly midday; twelve …

Twenty-four-seven

Twiddle your thumbs

Twist of fate

Twist someone’s arm

Twist the knife

Twisted-mind

Two against one

Two birds with one stone 
Accomplish two tasks in one motion.

Two heads are better than one.

Two’s company and three’s a crowd
Two friends enjoying themselves sometimes find that an
extra third person hinders their fun and understanding;
sometimes two people who want to be alone together,
would like to get rid of a third one (who is a third wheel
so to speak). “Get lost. We don’t want you to join us. 
Two’s company and three’s a crowd.” “I always feel like
the third wheel when I am together with my brother and
his girlfriend, and I understand the sense of “Two’s a
company and three’s a crowd.” “When buddies share secrets, and they don’t want a stranger to share in the conversation, this is a perfect example of what “Two’s company and three’s a crowd means.”

Two-faced

Two-timer
 Someone who is dating a second person at the same time as the first,

Two-way-street

Ubiquitous presence 
Ever-present; everywhere; omnipresent.

Ugly American

Ugly as sin

Ugly customer

Ugly duckling

Unbiased opinion

Unbridled anger 
Uncontrolled anger that has got totally out of reign and out of hand.

Unburden yourself 
Confess your sins; open-up and tell all your troubles;
give vent to your emotions.

Uncharted waters

Unconditional surrender

Uncouth language

Undaunted effort

Under duress

Under false pretenses

Under investigation

Under lock and key

Under my skin 
“It gets under my skin when I see …

Under one’s thumb

Under pressure

Under scrutiny

Under separate cover

Under suspicion of

Under the counter 
Done illegally; taking bribes or kickbacks; not transparent, supposedly passed under the table or counter..

Under the hammer

Under the impression

Under the influence 

Under the microscope

Under the right circumstances

Under the table

Under the weather 
Ill; not well; sick. “… feeling under the weather…”

Under the wire

Under your belt

Under your breath

Under your nose

Under your own steam 
With no help

Under your thumb

Under your very eyes.

Under your wing 
Just as a chicken keeps her chickens under her wing for
their protection, so Under your protection;

Under-handed action

Underlying cause

Undesirable alien

Undying devotion

Unexpected windfall

Unfailing devotion

Unfailing loyalty

Unforgettable experience

Unheard of behavior

Unintentional error 
An accidental mistake that was not made deliberately or
on purpose.

Unquenchable thirst for

Unquestionable integrity

Unruly behavior

Unscrupulous motives

Untangle the mess

Untangle the web

Untested waters

Until doomsday

Until hell freezes over

Until kingdom come

Until the cows come home
Just as it takes a while for the cows to come home from
pasture on a farm, so it can seem like a long time when
you are waiting for someone or something.

Up against a brick well

Up and coming

Up in arms 
Protesting against

Up in the air

Up one notch 
Move up one step;

Up the creek without a paddle

Up the kazoom 
A polite way of saying you are full or filled-up, all the
way up your backside. I’m full-up to the kazoom and I’m 
not going to take any more of your shit!” “We’ve got orders up the kazoom, but not enough merchandize in stock
to fill the orders.” “…

Up the wall

Up to mischief

Up to my ears

Up to my eyeballs

Up to my neck

Up to no good 
Planning to do something bad to cause trouble; acting in
a habitual mischievous manner; plotting some mischievous deed. “Whenever the children are peaceful and
quiet when they are playing upstairs, mother always suspects they are up to no good.” “I don’t know what Hopkins is plotting now, but you can be sure that, he is up to
no good.” “My sister’s husband appears to be behaving
himself for a change, but I am sure that behind the
scenes, he is still up to no good.”

Up to scratch 
Meeting the bare minimum requirement; up to par; up to snuff

Up to something 
Using some concealed trick or device;

Up to you. 
Whatever you say; you decide; whatever you want.

Up to your ears 
Very busy, as though the work was piled-up in stacks up
to the level of your ears. “Sorry I can’t stop to chat now.
I’m up to my ears with reports to review and working
against a deadline.” “I’m up to my ears at the office and
terribly overstressed.”

Up to your old tricks

Up yours! 
An impolite way of saying, “You know where you can
stick it.” “Sometimes, the expression, “Up yours!’ accompanied with a hand gesture, with the middle finger
sticking-up in the air can also mean that you refuse to
fulfill a person’s request or do his bidding.”

Up-and-coming

Up-for-grabs
Available; there for the taking; easily obtainable; up for
offer; to be gotten for a low price. “In the 1880’s there
was a lot of open land up for grabs, in the middle and
western United States.” “There is a twenty acre farm that
is up for grabs just to the west of town, and I think that I
am going to buy it as an investment for the future.” “I
have just seen a 1980, classic, Mercedes Benz 450 SLC,
two door sports coupe that is up for grabs, and I cannot
resist the temptation to buy it.”

Upper crust 
The up-most level of the upper class; the highest level of
high society; the most expensive, exclusive class; the
cream of the cream. “Upper crust English Society, including Queen Victoria and her family, used to winter in
the town of Menton on the French Riviera.” “When The
Ritz first opened, it was so exclusive and expensive that 
only the upper crust could afford to stay there.” “There
are certain clubs in London where you can not even apply to join if you are not a highly-respected member of
the upper crust.”

Upset the apple cart

Upset the balance

Up-to-speed 
Meeting the expected norm; meeting the standard; up-todate.

Upturn in earnings

Upwardly mobile

Urgent need

Use a civil tone

Use some elbow grease

Use your head for a change

Use your noggin! 
Think! Use your head. Think! Use your h

Usher in the new year

Usher-in 
Welcome in … to your seats… new year… new millennium

Utter exasperation

Vagabond life

Vain attempt Vain effort

Vandalistic action

Vanishing act 
To disappear; vanish into thin air.

Variant behavior 
Behavior that deviates from the norm

Variety is the spice of life
Trying something different for a change is what makes
life interesting.

Vehement argument 
Passionate, heated, violent argument.

Velvet gloves 
Suggestive of handling with care.

Vengeance is mine. 
I will seek revenge and punish you for your wrongdoings. “The Bible contains the expression, “Vengeance
is mine,” meaning that the Lord God will seek you out
and punish you for your sins.” “Vengeance is mine is one
of the unspoken oaths of the Mafia code of silence “A
women who has been betrayed in romance may forewarn her ex-lover of her intended revenge by saying the
words, “Vengeance is mine.”

Vengeful attitude

Vent your frustrations 
Vent your … emotions

Venture a guess

Verbal abuse

Verging on madness 
Almost at-the-point of becoming crazy; or an idea that
comes close to being insane. 

Very becoming 
Makes you look very attractive.

Very slow-going 
Proceeding with difficulty at a very slow rate; a slow and
tedious process. “Writing a book on idioms and expressions in English is very slow going.”

Vested-interest

Vestige of hope

Vexing behavior 
Annoying, troublesome worrying behavior. Teaching is a
rewarding profession, but sometimes the vexing behavior
of the children can be very tiring.” “She makes me angry
with her vexing behavior, and I’m hoping to see the day
that she gets fired from her job.”

Viscous circle 
Unbroken sequence of cause and effect that keeps coming back to the same place, leading nowhere.

Vivid memories

Voice an opinion

Voracious appetite

Vote of confidence

Vouch for somebody 
Give assurance; guarantee; speak for someone’s integrity.

Vow of allegiance 
Swear, promise or give your word to be loyal and faithful.

Vow of vengeance 
Swear to punish and take revenge in order to right a
wrong-doing or injury suffered in the past..

Vulnerable point 
Weak point; Achilles’ heel; where you can be wounded.

Wad of money 
A bankroll of paper-money carried loosely in the pocket;
a whole lot of money; a stack of paper money; a bundle;
a fortune. “I used to carry a big wad of folded paper
money around in my pocket, but, one night, I had too
many whiskies and a taxi driver rolled me for forty thousand, so now I limit the amount of cash I carry loosely in
my pocket.” “The gambler, Nick the Greek, took a big
wad of money out of his pocket and put it on the table
and asked if anyone there was willing to raise the bet by
one-hundred thousand.” “I used to know a guy who had a
fleet of cement trucks back home in Texas who was
known to always carry a big wad of money around in his
pocket, until one night someone, probably a person
known-to-him, shot him dead and relieved him of his
wad.”

Wade in knee deep 
Wade-in… and get started on the work

Wade through 
Just as it is difficult to wade through water, so we say
that when we approach a difficult jog, we must not hesitate but wade right in and get started.

Wailing with laughter 
Laughing hysterically, screaming with laughter; laughing
until you are almost in tears; laughing and almost weeping out-of-control; rolling in the aisles.

Wait a jiffy. 
Wait just a minute.

Wait in vain

Wait until hell freezes over.
It doesn’t matter how long you wait, things will not happens in the way that you wish.

Wait until I get my hands on you.
When I catch hold of you I am going to punish you so
you will be sorry for what you did. “Wait until I get you
in my grips! When I get my hands on you I …“Wait until
I get my claws on you… “Wait until I get you in my
clutches! …

Wait until the heat is off 
Lie low for a while until the police stop pursuing the case
or drop it all-together. .. Wait until the dust has settled.

Waiting for a miracle

Waiting game

Wait-up for me! 
You’re walking too fast; I can’t keep-up with you; I’m
falling behind. “

Wake-up call 
Just As you can have a hotel telephone operator call your
room, in the morning, to wake you up at six o’clock, so
we can say that an event is a sign, or wake-up call, that
you’d better pay attention and do something quickly before it is too late; before something bad happens, if nothing is done. “The latest global warming statistics should
be a wake up call for the world to reduce dependence on
oil production.” “When I got an “F” on my calculus
exam, it was a wake up call for me to develop better
study habits.” “When my wife said she was thinking of
leaving me, it was a wake up call for me to start paying
closer attention to her and the family.”

Walk all over someone

Walk away from
Turn your back and “walk away” from trouble or opportunity.

Walk away 
Scott free Get off the hook without any punishment

Walk of life 
Profession; career path;

Walk tall 
Hold yourself tall and look proud.

Walk the floor all night 
Remain awake; restless with worry.

Walking disaster

Walking on air 
Highly elated

Walking papers 
Notice of dismissal; written notice of termination of employment.

Wallflower 
Someone who sits on one of the chairs along the wall at a
party and never leaves gets or accepts an invitation to
dance.

Wallop someone 
Smack or hit someone with a very hard blow because he
has angered you or you want to punish him.

Wallowing in self-pity 
Enjoying feeling sorry for your self; sunk in a depression 
and overcome with self-indulgence; stuck and mireddown in a mood of self-pity. “As a teenager, I went
through a period of wallowing in self-pity, but soon
snapped-out-of-it after a about a year and returned to
normal again.” “I hate to see people wallowing in selfpity because I know they are thinking of nothing but
themselves.” “Children who have been badly abused
have a tendency to wallow in self-pity, but with proper
counseling, they can be helped out of their misery.”

Wall-to-wall 
carpeting

Wandering aimlessly 
Walking about with no goal or purpose in mind.

Wangle one’s way into

Wanton ways 
Immoral, unjustifiable, wasteful habits of behavior.

Want-to-be 
“Hollywood used to be filled with want-to-be starlets
who were working as waitresses.”

Warped-imagination...
...twisted view that distorts

Wash and wear 
Not necessary to iron after washing. Hang and dry and wear.

Wash one’s dirty linen in public
Tell your dirty secrets in front of others as a way of punishing your partner publicly by trying to gain sympathy
from the listeners.

Wash your hands of 
Disclaim responsibility

Washed-up 
Ruined, finished

Waste away 
Slowly lose strength and energy to the point of dying.

Waste of breath 
No use in talking to

Waste of energy 
No point in making the effort to

Watch like a hawk

Watch out! 
Danger! Be careful! Tale care!

Watch where you’re going!

Look where you are going! 
Watch out where you are going so you do not bump into people and things.

Watch your back 
Just as we can say to be careful who or what is coming
up behind you, so

Watch your mouth. 
Be careful of what you say. “Watch your mouth, or you
may say something you are sorry for later.” *

Watch your step. 
Be careful what you do.

Watch your tongue. 
Watch what you say. “If you don’t watch your tongue
and be careful what you say, I’m going to wash your
mouth out with soap.” “In ancient times, people who did
not watch their tongues ran the risk of having their
tongues cut out.”

Watch yourself. 
Observe you motives and actions and be careful of what
you do.

Water under the bridge 
Something that happened that cannot be r changed in the
present; that may-as-well be forgotten; which the flow of
time cannot reverse. “There’s no use crying over the suffering inflicted on you in the past. It is water under the
bridge” “Don’t harbor resentment about setbacks you
have suffered in the past. What’s past is past: it is water 
under the bridge.” “Don’t complain about the past, see it
as water that has passed under the bridge and start again
to strive to make the future better.”

Watered-down 
Just as … may be diluted with water, so we say …

Water-tight argument 
An argument that cannot be proven wrong.

Waver between 
Be undecided between two choices;

Way the wind is blowing 
The popular trend of opinion.

Way to go! 
Congratulations! That was a good thing that you did.!

We go back a long way 
We have known one another for a long time; we have
been friends for years; we owe one another favors for
things that happened in the past; we’ve known each
other’s secrets and weaknesses since we were young.
“I’ll always remember the good times we had growing up
together. We go back a long way.” “You owe me. We go
back a long way. I need to ask you an important favor.”
“Remember all the times I have covered for you in the
past. We go back a long way. I know you better than I
know myself.”

We’ll cross that bridge
when we come to it.
We’ll have to wait and see what happened and make a
decision depending on the circumstances.

Weak point 
Vulnerable point. “Everybody has their weak point. You
just have to find it.” “Don’t speak about my … .That’s
my weak point, and I feel very sensitive when someone
touches upon it

Weak-kneed 
Lacking resolution and conviction. “My little sister is too
weak-willed to stand up and decide anything on her own,
without her mother’s consent. She’s too weak-kneed to
go for a pee on her own.” *

Wear and tear

Wear one’s heart on one’s sleeve

Wear out your welcome 
Visitors may be welcome, but if they stay too long, for
too many days, or become a nuisance or a bother, the
host may begin to feel that it’s time for them to go and be
glad to get rid of them. “I stayed with my brother in Los
Angeles for three months, but he got tired of me just sitting around doing nothing, and he finally told me I’d
worn out my welcome.” “Bob was a guest in our house
for about a month, but his bragging and drinking and
smoking got on our nerves, so we told him he’d worn out
his welcome and that it was time for him to leave.”
Wear the trousers in the family

Wear your heart on your sleeve

Wearing thin

Weasel out of a situation

Weaving in-and-out 

Web of deceit 
Just as a spider weaves a web, so we may be said to
weave web of lies. “One lie leads to another and another
until we are entangled in a web of our own deceit.” “ …
caught-up in the tangled web of your own deceit.”

Wedge your way in between

Wee hours

Weed-out the weakest 
Sort-out and discard;

Weep your heart out

Weigh one’s words 
Think carefully about what one says before spealing

Weighty argument

Welcome with open arms

Well-kept secret
“It is a well-guarded, well-kept secret that

Well-rounded

Well-versed 
Well-read Very well-imformedin many areas of knowledge.

Went Scott-free 
Was released an let off the hook without being charged
or punished.

Were your ears burning? 
Did you sense someone was talking about you?

Wet blanket 
Party-pooper; killjoy; spoilsport. “Just as someone can
throw a wet blanket on the fire to dampen it, so a person
who dampens the fun and enjoyment of others may be
said to be a wet blanket.” and afraid of interacting with
others.” be the wet blanket that you really are.”
Wet blanket Just as a wet blanket will dampen a fire, so a person can
discourage others from having fun; someone who spoils
the fun for others; a spoilsport, killjoy, party-pooper.
“Don’t be such a wet blanket, join in the party, and stop
spoiling the fun for others.” “You may call me a wet
blanket for not joining in on the activities, but the truth is
that I am just terribly shy.” “Why sit around looking so
glum? Don’t be such a wet blanket and join in the festivities and have some fun.”

Wet your whistle 
Have a drink;

What can I say? 
There is nothing more to say.

What a bombshell! 
Implies that a woman is so beautiful she hits you like a
bombshell.

What a grind!

What a grouch!

What a joke! 
Hoe ridiculous!

What a knockout! 
Implies that the effect of a woman’s good looks on a man
could be like a knockout-punch.

What a load of crap!

What a lout! 
Stupid, awkward oaf; silly fool.

What a mess!

What a pigsty!
What a dirty place.

What a piker! 
What a cheapskate; … let someone else pay the bill 

What a pill! 
An expression implying that a person is hard –to-take in
the way that some people find medicine hard-to-take.

What a whopper! 

What a big lie!

What are you anglingfor?

What are you driving at? 
What point are you trying to make? What are you leading-up to? What is the hidden motive for what you are
saying? What are you trying to suggest? What are you
insinuating? “Stop beating around the bush and come to
the point. What are you driving at?” “I hear what you are
saying, but I don’t understand your purpose. What are
you driving at?” “Stop talking in circles and say what
you really mean. What’s bothering you? What are you
driving at?”

What are you gaping at? 
Why are you looking at me with your eyes and your
mouth wide-open like that?

What are you getting at? 

What did you expect?

What do you make of it? 
Can you figure it out?

What do you think about this?

What do you take me for?
Do you think I am an idiot or a fool?

What do you want to bet?

What goes around comes around.
The wheel of karma …

What in hell? 
An expression of surprise that asks what devilish impulse
has caused something happen or from what realm of hell
something may have appeared.

What in the world? 
Asks the question what on earth may have been the possible cause of an action or event.

What it all comes down to
In the final analysis; in the end; in essence.

What on earth? 
An expression of surprise asking what in the world has
caused something to happen.

What you’re made of 
Your mettle; bravery; courage; resolve. “Show the world
what you’re made of. Stand up and show them your mettle”

What’s all the fuss? 
What is all the commotion about?

What’s all the hubbub about?
Why all the big noise, racket, uproar, hullabaloo? What
is the matter? What is going on?

What’s bothering you? 
what’s bugging you now? Tellme what’s bothering you now.

What’s cooking? 
What’s happening? What’s going on? What’s up? What
are you doing?

What’s eating you now? 
What is bothering you or eating away at your heart or at
brain, or gut this time? Used especially when you are in
the habit of complaining or feeling bitter and resentful. “I
can see by the look on your face that you are not happy.

What’s eating you now?” 
“I’ve tried everything I can to 
try to make you happy, and still you look disgruntled.
What’s eating you now?” “I’m sick and tired of hearing
your complaints. What’s eating you now?”

What’s happening? 
What’s the news? What’s the latest? What’s going on?
What’s the scene? What’s happening with you? “Hey
man! What’s happening?” “When punks meet on the
street and ask “What’s happening,’ this is just a meaningless form of greeting.”

What’s on your mind? 
What are you thinking about? What do you want to talk
about? What’s worrying you? Do you have a question to
ask? Is there something you want to say to me? “You’d
better tell me what’s on your mind because I can see
something is bothering you.” “I’m afraid to tell you
what’s on my mind for fear of making you jealous and
angry.” “Hi, Bob, I hear you want to talk to me. Sit down
and tell me what’s on your mind.”

What’s the big idea? 
What’s going on here? What do you think you’re doing?
Who gave you permission to do that? Who do you think
you are to act without approval?

What’s the big to-do? 
What is all the fuss about? What is the big problem?

What’s the damage? 
How much is it going to cost? How much do I have to
pay? What is the amount of the bill? “I used to know this
American guy from Texas, who always said ‘What’s the
damage?’, instead of asking about the amount of the bill
the way normal people would.” “Sorry, officer, I know I
was driving too fast and I’m willing to pay the fine on
the spot. What’s the damage?” “OK, Baby. You gave me
a good time, and whatever it costs, it was certainly worth
the money. What’s the damage?”

What’s the gimmick? 
Trick; gambit; ploy; strategy; scheme;

What’s the idea?

What’s the latest? 
A common greeting one friend asks another about the
latest news or a recent happening or event that has occurred. What is the e latest news? What’s happening
man? “Well, Jane, I haven’t seen you in ages; what’s the
latest? What has been happening with you? What’s new
in your life? Has Bob asked you to marry him yet?

What’s the matter? 
What’s wrong?

What’s the ploy? 
Gimmick; scheme; gambit; trick. “What trick are you up
to? What’s the ploy?

What’s the ruckus? 
What is the cause of this noise; disturbance; commotion;
uproar; upset?

What’s the use? 
There is no use in trying.

What’s the word? 
What is the latest news? What was the decision?

What’s up with you?
What’s your problem? Is something wrong? Did something happen to upset you? Are you angry?

What’s up? 
What’s happening? What’s the news?; What’s going on?

What’s your angle? 
What trick are you using to get what you want? “What do you want? What/s your angle?”

What’s your beef? 
What is your complaint? Why are you so dissatisfied?
What have you got to grumble about? 
What is the reason
for your resentment? Why are you so disgruntled? Tell
me, what’s your problem?

What’s your ploy? 
What’s your trick, tactic or scheme? What have you got
up your sleeve?

What’s your poison? 
What kind of alcoholic drink would you like? “We have
wine, beer whiskey or gin. What’s your poison? What
would you like to drink?

Whatever!
Whatever you say. It’s up to you; what ever you want.
Teenage slang, showing boredom and indifference to
whatever you want to do or suggest. “O.K. Let’s do it
your way. Whatever.”

Wheel has come full circle

Wheel of fortune

Wheeler-dealer
wheel and deal

When all is said and done 
In the end;

When conditions are right

When I get around to it 
When I have finished all my work, and I have time for it.

When the chips are down 
When things are going badly for you; when you seem to
be running out of luck; down on your luck.

When the going gets tough

Where in the world? 
Where did that come from?

While away the time
Wait and keep yourself occupied in a pleasant way

While the going is good 
Now, during the time when things are going well.

Whip someone into shape

Whiplash effect

Whisk-away

Whisper sweet nothings in my ear

Whistle-blower

White elephant 
Something of high value that is hard to sell;

White lie

White trash 
Low class, unworthy people. “In the old days, in the
Southern United States, the so-called respectable white
people looked-down on the poor, uneducated people as
white trash.”

Whitewash something

Whiz by 
“ Arnold heard the missile whiz close by his ear …

Whiz kid

Who calls the shots here?

Wild goose chase 
Waste of time trying to … 

Wild weekend

Will to win

Willing and able

Willing-victim 
A supposed victim of a bad action or crime, in which one
is in fact a willing-participant: someone who co-operates
willing in his/her own victimization. “If you claim that I
raped you, you were certainly the most willing and eager
victim that I have ever seen.” “Sometimes, people who
stage their own kidnappings for financial gain may be
said to be willing-victims.” “Some sexually-perverted
individuals choose to be chained-and–whipped for their
own satisfaction and gratification, but I would certainly
never allow myself to be a such a willing-victim.”

Will-o’-the-wisp 
Unobtainable, unreachable, romantic dream or hope;
hazy, nebulous, phantom-pursuit. “Romantic will-o’-thewisp phantasms of perfect eternal love and unending
marital bliss belong in the novels of the eighteenth century” “Stop following your will-o’-the-wisp dreams and
imaginary fantasies and come down to earth and take a
good, hard, long look at reality.” “The Legend of Sleepy
Hollow is the product of a will-o’-the-wisp phantom pursuit based on early American heritage.”

Willy-nilly 
Anyway; anyhow; whatever; regardless; no matter what; in any case.

Win hands down

Window of opportunity

Wine and dine

Wink of the eye 
The time it takes to blink your eye.

Wipe off the map 
Attack and totally destroy and wipe-out an enemy
stronghold soit no longer exists any more.

Wipe the floor with

Wipe your slate clean 
Clear off your past record and start anew.

Wise advice

Wise up 
Don’t be so stupid; be more clever than that; smarten-up;

Wisecracker 
Someone who is always making smart remarks; smart
Alec; wise guy; joker. “There’s always a wisecracker in
every group who makes jokes and smart remarks just to
get attention.” “There’s always some smart Alec or wise
guy who likes make wisecracks and dumb comments
when someone else is trying his best to save the situation.” “It may be all right to be a wisecracker at the
proper time and place, but at your own mother’s funeral
is not one of them.” “I don’t like to hear wise cracks
when I’m trying to teach my students something serious.”

Wise-up 
Smarten up and don’t be so stupid. “Listen. Wise Guy, if
you don’t wise up and get smart, we’ll have some of our 
boys come along and break your arms and legs.”

Wish list 
This means a list of the things you would like to do or
have or be given. For example, children, at Christmas,
often write a list if gifts they would like to receive; in a
broader sense, all people have secret wishes and hopes
and desires some of which are higher on their priority list
than others; or it could be a list of expectations wanted in
a marriage or job. “The highest priority on my wish list is
to find a faithful husband.” The first thing on my wishlist is a private jet.” “The union representatives presented
the management committee a wish list of job-related improvements regarding technical support equipment.”

Wishful thinking

Wishy-washy 
Indecisive; with no definite opinion; weak; feeble.
“Don’t be so wishy-washy. Take a stand and stand by
what you say.”

Wistful sigh 
A sigh accompanying a wishful but melancholy moment
of memory. “I sometimes think back and remember my
first date with a wistful sigh

Wit’s end 
Not knowing what to do or how to proceed; having exhausted the possibilities and not knowing what to do
next. “I’m at my wit’s end, I’ve …

Witch hunt 
Just as in the old days they used to hunt down and burn a
woman suspected of being a witch, so these days the
government or the press may have a witch hint to find
someone to blame and punish for a supposed misdeed.

With a deep sigh of regret

With a sigh

With all your might

With child 
Pregnant;

With flying colors 
Great success

With no frills 
Very basic; with no extras or benefits.

With no respite 
Without let-up; with no pause for breath; no time to relax; with no let-up; no relief; no interval to rest; unrelenting. “Gale force winds have been blowing for twelve
consecutive days now, with no respite, and there is no
sign of a let-up.” “The US air force had been bombing
the Japanese stronghold for three days and nights without
respite before the order finally came to send in ground
troops.” “The opposition party has been pushing the present government, without respite, for the last two years to
institute proposed labor reform laws.”

With no trace 
disappeared without a trace

With no uncertain doubts

With one hand tied behind my back

Very easily because you know it so well.

With reservations 
With some doubt in the mind. 

With the best of intentions
Moved by the best of motives.

With your eyes wide open
To go into something with no illusions

With your tail between your legs
Just as a dog will run-off when scolded, so we may say
that a person retreats with his tail between his legs.

Within a stone’s throw 
Close enough that you could throw a stone and hit it.

Within an inch of my life 
A close call; a near brush;

Within arm’s reach 
At hand where you can reach fot it.

Within earshot 
Close enough to hear or listen. Within hearing-range;
within listening-distance; “We live just within earshot of
the church bell in town.” “We were taught in the antiterrorist squad not to whisper anything within earshot of
a suspect that might make him aware he is under surveillance.” “At the cocktail party, I was just within earshot,
and I heard him telling her to come to his hotel room just
after midnight.”

Within shouting distance 
Relentlessly; non-stop;

Within striking distance within range

Without a care in the world
Totally free of any worry.

Without a leg to stand on 
With no basis or justification for an action

Without a second thought 
Before taking even a moment to think.

Without blemish 
Absolutely pure and perfect.

Without flinching 
Without moving a muscle to show fear or pain.

Without letup 
Continuously without pause.

Without provocation

Without scruple 
Totally lacking moral or ethical principles.

Wolf in sheep’s clothing

Woman of ill-repute 
A woman with a bad reputation for sexual, immoral action wanton behavior.

Woman’s prerogative 
A woman’s right or privilege. “It’s a woman’s prerogative to change her mind.”

Won’t budge an inch 
Is inflexible and stubborn.

Won’t take no for an answer

Wonders never cease. 
Unusual occurrences often happen; it is not surprising to
be surprised; or conversely, in a derogative sense, it is
not surprising to see how stupid people can be. “Who
would have thought that there could be two full moons in
one month? Wonders never cease.” “A generation ago no
one would ever have imagined that science would be able
to clone human embryos. Wonders never cease.” “You
would have thought that man might have learned something from human history, but, now, through greed and
desire, he is on the verge of destroying the very environment in which he lives. Wonders never cease.”

Woo away 
Just as a young man might woo or attract a young lady 
away from her family, so we can say a firm woos away a
good employee from another firm.

Word gets around 
News travels fast; rumors spread rapidly.

Word of mouth 
Told or passed on orally through speech. “Our firm does
not do much advertising, and our clients come to us
based on mouth-to mouth communication.” “Our reputation simply spreads orally, by word-of-mouth.”

Work over 
Give a beating and questioning.

Word to the wise 
Word of advice; a word of warning; a bit of wisdom for
those ready to listen.

Work til you drop

Work for peanuts 
Just as an elephant will perform tricks for peanuts, so
some employees work for low pay. “I have no choice but
to work for peanuts, because I don’t have a work permit.” “Back home in the USA, I was earning sixtythousand Dollars a year as an English teacher. Here, in
Thailand, I have the choice of working for peanuts or not
working at all.” “Unscrupulous employers can hire illegal immigrants to work for peanuts because they will be
deported if the immigration department finds out.”.”
“There is an old saying that if you pay peanuts, you get
monkeys.”

Work for pittance 
Work for almost no pay; for peanuts. “Teachers in Thailand work for a pittance.” “Burmese sailors work for a
pittance compared to Germans.” *

Work in 
Fit into a schedule or timetable.

Work like a charm 
Work as if by some supernatural spell; so easy it seems
to come by magic.

Work out 
Solve in the sense of to work out a solution.

Work things out 
Come to an agreement and settlement.

Work things through 
Settle a disagreement by going through point-by-point
and working things out.

Work until you drop.
“Nowadays the big corporations hire young graduates and work them until they drop.”

Work wonders

Work your fingers to the bone
Literally, work so hard, for example with rocks and
stones, that your fingers are actually exposed to the
bones, or figuratively, work so hard, for example, in the
kitchen, that it is comparable to working one’s fingers to
the bones.

Work your way through 
Start at the beginning and work your way forward, bitby-bit, ‘til you reach the end.

Worked-to-death 
So overworked it almost kills you or in some cases actually kills you. “I am so worked-to-death at the office that
I hardly have time to have a private life.” “In the old
Japanese business tradition, some managers actually
worked themselves to death out of a sense of commitment.” * 

Worked-up Excited; 
agitated; angry; upset. “ into a frenzy…”

Working against the clock
Trying to meet the deadline, as time is running out; need
to finish on time; no time for delay; soon will be too late;
the end is near; must meet the time limit or pay the price.
“Volunteers are working against the clock trying to put
sandbags along the river banks to avoid the streets of the
city being flooded.” “The audit team was working
against the clock trying to get the annual review finished
by the deadline.” “It may soon be too late to avoid fatalities if the National Guard is not able to evacuate potential
hurricane victims from the coastal area on time.”

Working-stiff 
Just a normal employee who follows orders and does his job.

World shattering 
World shaking

Worldly wisdom 
Worldly-wise

Worlds apart

Worlds away 
Far away in thought; lost in thought; distracted; absorbed; pensive; a long way away; not listening; not paying attention; daydreaming. “I often find myself worlds
away, lost in my own thoughts, even when I am with a
group of friends sitting around talking.” “Bertha was
nagging her husband, as usual, but he was worlds away,
lost in thoughts of his own.” “Absorbed with highly abstract mathematical problems, he lived in an intellectual
sphere of his own, worlds away from the little practical
problems and details of everyday life.”

Worm your way in 
Just as a worm……. ;…. worm and squirm ………….

Worm your way out

Worn to a frazzle 
Tired and exhausted; totally fatigued; weary and wornout; totally drained; right down to your last bit of energy.
“I got the job done on time and I’m proud of my accomplishment, but I worked so hard, I’m worn to a frazzle.”

Worried-to-death 
Worried sick

Worry-wart

Worst case scenario

Worth one’s salt

Worth one’s while

Worth pondering

Worthwhile cause

Wouldn’t give you the time of day

Wouldn’t’ hurt a flea.

Wrangle something out of somebody

Wrap someone around
your little finger.
Have influence over someone who will do anything you
say because he is so fond and devoted to you. “She is so
beautiful and desirable that she can wrap almost any man
around her little finger and get him to do her bidding.” 
“Our youngest sister, Clementine, was Daddy’s favorite
daughter, and she could wrap him around her little finger
and get him to do anything she wished him to.” “Just because you are so cute, don’t think that you can wrap me
around your little finger and get me to do what you
want.”

Wreak havoc

Wriggle off the hook 
Just as a fish may wriggle off the hook so can a person who has been caught in trouble.

Wriggle out of a situation 
Just as a snake can wriggle …

Write-off your losses

Writing-on-the-wall 
Something you can see coming.

Written-all-over-yourface

Written-in-the-wind 
Something predetermined by fate; decided beforehand;
something that had to be; could not be avoided; a hint of
what is to come, as though it were being whispered by
the wind. “We were meant for each other. I just had to
wait for you to come along. Our love was written-in-thewind.” “Alone on the freezing mountaintop he could hear
his death approaching, as though his fate were written-inthe-wind in whispering notes and doleful tones.” “The,
stranded exhausted troops, were backed-up against the
beach-head, but there was a whisper of hope coming, as
though their rescue was written in the wind.”

Wrong side of the bed 
A figure of speech meaning someone woke up in a bad
mood this morning.

Wrong side of the tracks 
Poor section of town

Wrong-headed 
Stubborn about doing the wrong thing; cannot be convinced to accept that one’s view is wrong.

Wrong-minded 
Someone who enjoys holding the wrong attitude and
won’t compromise his view.

Yackety-yak 
A lot of talk; talk a lot; never stop talking, “Stop all that
talking and get out of here. Stop that yackety-yak and
don’t come back.” *

Yap, yap, yapping all day long
Just as a dog may keep barking or yelping all day long,
so a person may be said to be yapping and complaining
without letup. “If you don’t stop you’re yapping and
complaining all day long, I’ll see that someone puts you
out of your misery.” “ ……..

Yearning desire

Yellow press 

Yellow-bellied 
Cowardly………. Yellow streak

Yes-man

Yield to pressure 
Give in to …
You are your own worst
enemy.

You be the judge of that

You bet your boots. 
You can be sure of that; that’s for certain; no doubt about
it.

You bet your bottom!

You bet your life! 
Ditto

You can dish it out, but you can’t take it.

You can … others but you cannot take …

You can dispense with the formalities.

You can say that again. 
That’s the truth; I agree wholeheartedly;

You can’t bluff a bluffer

You can’t get blood from
a stone

You can’t go home
again.

You can’t take it with you.
When you die and pass from this life, you cannot take
your wealth and possessions with you; even if you go to
heaven you cannot take what you own along with you.
“Old Michael is such a skinflint. I am always saying that
if you can’t take it with you, it’s better to spend some
money on yourself instead of hoarding it in the bank.”
“Anyone who dies rich has missed to opportunity to use
his wealth charitably to benefit society. After all, you
can’t take it with you.” “If you can’t take it with you, enjoy it while you have it.”

You could’ve knocked me over with a feather.
I was so shocked and surprised that I …

You crumb!
You are a dirty, low-down, deceiving, self-motivated
person.

You deal with it.
it’s your problem.

You don’t say! 
Is that true? I can hardly believe it?

You dope 
Someone so stupid we compare him to a person dopedup on drugs so he cannot understand. Someone so
dumb, we call him a ‘dummy.’ You dummy!

You heel! 
Literally, someone who has stepped on you; figuratively,
someone who

You hit the bull’s eye. 
You hit the answer right on target

You light up my day. 
seeing you makes me feel cheery and bright.

You lily-livered coward 
You are a faint-hearted, spineless, timid coward.

You little imp You little scallywag
What a little rascal, scamp, impudent, impulsive, cheeky
child. “You little imp! to You little scallywag

You look a little peaked. 
You appear a little pale and ill; you seem to be irritated and annoyed.

You look like a million bucks!
You look just great!

You louse! 
You low character, rat; rascal scoundrel.

You make me sick! 
Your behavior is so disgusting it makes me feel revolted
and sick at my stomach!”

You never can tell
never know

You rat!
“You prick! You dirty rat! How could you …

You rattlesnake 
Just as a rattlesnake raises its tail and makes a rattling
noise, just before it is about to strike and poison you, so
we may say that a dangerous person who is approaching
you with the intention of doing you harm is a rattle
snake. “Get away from me, you lowdown rattlesnake, I
wouldn’t trust you as far as I could throw you.”

You saved the day! 
You were a Godsend; you stepped in and did what was
necessary to remedy the situation.

You scratch my back and I’ll scratch your back
You do something for me and I do something for you.

You skunk!
You stinker!

You so-and-so! 
You dirty, lowdown, no-goof, …(insert a line of curse
words)

You took the words right out of my mouth.
Those are the exact words I was going to say myself.

You want to start something?
Are you looking for a fight? Are you trying to start a disagreement with me?

You weasel! 
You are always lying to get out of a situation!

You wiped-out. 
You failed completely in front of everybody; you failed
to succeed and everyone knew about it; you tried your
best and did not make the grade.

You worm! 
You are the lowest of the low because of your
You’d better be on time. Don’t be late or else!

You’ll be the death of me!
You will be such a cause of worry to me that you’ll kill
me in the end.

You’ll catch your death of cold!
If you go out in this winter weather you’ll get a very bad
cold that could even kill you.

You’ll get yours. 
You will get what’s coming to you; you’ll pay for the
harm you have done

You’re a godsend! 
You come at a time as though God himself had sent you
to help

You’re a lifesaver! 
Just the way we throw a life ring to someone drowning in
the water, so we can sat that someone …

You’re a numbskull. 
You must be stupid; you are pretty dumb; there is something wrong with your brain; almost an idiot. “You are so
stupid you can’t even understand how to switch off the
electricity: you’re a numbskull.” “You numbskull! Can’
you even read that this is a restricted area?” “Richard is 
such a numbskull he doesn’t even know how to multiply
two times two.” “You must be a numbskull to imagine
that I would marry a poor, insignificant man like you,
when I am already engaged to a millionaire.”

You’re a peach! 
You are a wonderful person; good-hearted and kind and
thoughtful. “Thank you for … you’re a peach!”

You’re an angel.

You’re chicken 
You are afraid; a coward; lily-livered.

You’re cracked! 
Crazy; nuts; with a crack in your noggin.

You’re days are numbered.
I’ll kill you for what you have done; I’ll pay you back for
what you have done; your punishment is coming soon;
you will lose your job for what you have done. “You
double-crossed the mob, and now your days are numbered.” “I’ll kill you for what you have done to my family. You’re days are numbered.” “Now the company
knows I’ve been cooking the books, I’m going to lose my
job and go to jail for sure. My days are numbered.” *

You’re goose is cooked! 
Now, you are in big trouble! “For what you have done,
I’d say your goose is cooked. There is no way you can
avoid detection and punishment.” *

You’re imagining things 
You are imagining things to be true that have no basis in
fact. “Your house is not haunted by your ex-wife’s ghost.
You are imagining things.” “You are seeing hallucinations of things that are not actually there. You must be
crazy! You are imagining things!” “If you think I am
your wife’s lover, you must certainly be imagining
things!” *

You’re in for it. 
Going to get into trouble and be punished. “You’re in for
it! You’re really going to be in trouble now.” *

You’re loaded. 
You are drunk; you’ve had one too many; everyone can
see you are drunk from consuming too much alcohol;
your behavior shows that you are under the influence of
alcohol; acting in a way that shows you’ve been drinking; you’re pissed. “The police sometimes check to see if
a driver is loaded by getting him to show that he can
walk in a straight line without losing his balance.”
“Shirley could hear from the way her husband was slurring his words that he was loaded again.” “Harold always
gets aggressive when he is loaded. His wife, Ernestine, is
the opposite. When she gets plastered, she just falls
asleep.” “Whenever I go to a drinking party and get
really loaded, I always too hung-over to go to work the
next day.” “Look, you can see that old Mackenzie is
loaded again. He’s so pissed, that he’d fall on his face if
he tried getting-up off that barstool.”

You’re name is mud

You’re neck of the woods 

You’re nuts! 
You are crazy; mad; cuckoo;

You’re on your own. 
Now, there is no one to aid and assist you; you are all
alone on your own.

You’re only as old as you feel
“We are only as old as we feel and deep down,
we are all still young at heart.”

You’re pulling my leg. 
You are joking; you are kidding me.

You’re putting me on. 
Fooling; joking; lying; pretending;

You’re putting words in my mouth.

You’re seeing things 
Just as you might be imagining things or seeing hallucinations, so someone may sy you are seeing things when
he knows your view of the world and other people is wrong.

You’re up to your old tricks.

You’re welcome. 
Never mind; think nothing of it

You’re yellow. 
You are a coward

You’re-up-next. 
Get ready, it’s going to be your turn next; you will have
to go next; you’ll be the one who stands up next; you will
be the next person to speak, explain; you will be the next
one to perform; to be called-upon; the next one to be victimized. “Everyone must sing a song. I’ll sing first and
you’re up next.” “We are taking turns, and you’re up
next.” “Since we are speaking in turns, one-by-one, going around the table, you’d better get your argument
ready, because it’s you’re turn next. You’re up next.” All
my business competitors have gone bankrupt already,
and it’s my turn next.” “I’m a serial killer. I’ve already
raped and killed twenty- girls, and you’re up next.”

You’ve got a lot of nerve. 
Audacious; too sure of yourself; bold

You’ve got a point there.

You’ve got me. 
I don’t know; I have no idea; I couldn’t tell you the answer; you’ve put me on the spot. “Now you’ve got me.
Don’t ask me. That’s beyond me.” “I really have no idea
of what to say. You’ve got me. You’ve caught me at a
loss for words.” “I have no idea how to answer such a
question. You’ve got me. I’ll have to get back to you on
that one.” “I have no excuse, and I am at a loss for
words. You’ve got me.”

Your best bet 
The best option you can choose for your own benefit.

Your fate is sealed. 
Your fate has been decided and cannot be changed. “You
will suffer as a result of what you have done and nothing
you can do now can change it. Your fate is sealed.”

Your guess is as-goodas-mine.
I don’t know; I have no idea; I have insufficient information to predict the result; you know as much as I do about
the situation and what might happen; “I can only guess
and you may be able to guess as well as I can. Your
guess is as good as mine.” 

Your own flesh and blood
A member of you own family.

Yummy-yummy Uhhmmm! 
Good! “I cannot wait to taste that! It looks so
yummy!” * “Yummy , yummy, yummy. I’ve got a good
love in my tummy.”

Yuppie 
Young-up-and-coming-person in the world of business
and commerce. “Some older people do not like yuppies
because they think they’re so smart. They have too-much
money, and too-much confidence in their own selfimportance.” “There was a time when everyone wanted
to finish university, become a yuppie and buy a BMW
and own a million dollar condo in the inner-city.” “I used
to be a hippie. Now, my son is a yuppie, and my grandson is an insolent puppy.”

Zany behavior 
Mad-cap; whacky; screwy; weird; odd; bizarre. “The
Marx Brothers were an old-time comedy team that used
to think up weird, whacky, nutty, oddball, zany situations
to put into their act to get a laugh out of the audience.”
“Today’s stand-up comics and humorists often do and
say zany things on stage to make people laugh.” “The
Dean just told me that if I cut-up and pull any more of
my zany, screwball stunts that I would be suspended
from school immediately.” *

Zapped 
Just as a person may be struck by lightening or electrical
shock; so one may be totally wasted under the influence
of mind-altering drugs. “Man! Back in the sixties, we
were all zapped most of the time.” “I don’t know what
kind of drug you put in my drink last night, but I was totally zapped for the next six hours!” “Back in the late sixties, a lot of students who were zapped-out-of-theirminds most of the time flunked out of school and were
sent to Vietnam. *

Zeal of the moment 
Total enthusiasm, absolute keenness or even fanaticism
felt in the moment. “I don’t know why but during the
Marine recruiter’s speech, in the zeal of the moment, I
raised my hand and volunteered for service.” *

Zealous devotee 
Keen, enthusiastic, passionate follower or supporter. “My
friend Andre was a zealous devotee of the communist
cause, back during the war, but later he got disillusioned
by party politics and deserted the cause.” “I used to be a
zealous devotee of Madame Blavatsky, but when I heard
she was playing with the occult, I lost my initial fervor.”*

Zenith of his career 
The peak; the highest point; the climax of one’s career.

Zero-in-on 
Just as an airplane gunner can aim and zero in on his target, so one can set one’s sights and focus down
on ...;

Zigzag-about 
To move or run taking sharp turns one way and then another. “I love to sit by the pond and watch the water spiders zigzag one way and then another.” “My wife always complains about the way I like to drive and zigzag
from lane to lane in traffic.” “After Dad has had a few
drinks at the pub at night, he can no longer walk a
straight line and always zigzags his way home along the
pavement.” *

Zilch 
Nothing; zero; zip; nil. “Don’t ask me what is going on
here. I don’t know zilch about anything.” “Don’t try to
get me to rat on my buddies. I would rather die. Do what
you like to me, I won’t say zilch about anything.” *

Zing 
Energy, vigor, vitality, tang, sting. “Bartender! Please
mix me a rum cocktail with enough lime to give it a little
zing.” *

Zip (energy) 
Energy; source of power… “I feel so depleted of energy,
just like I have run out of zip.”

Zip (nothing) 
Nothing; not the least thing. “I don’t know zip about calculus.” “I haven’t heard zip about anything on the street.”
“The suspect hasn’t said zip to cops during the questioning period.” *

Zip-on-over 
Come by quickly to make a brief visit. “When you husband goes to work, zip on over to my place and we’ll
have a quickie.” “Zip on over and bring me the computer
disc so I can rewrite it as soon as possible.” “If you are
ever in my corner of town, please zip on over. I would be
overjoyed to see you.” *

Zip-up! 
Just as we zip-up a zipper so the zip is closed, so we can
tell someone to zip-up when we mean to keep a secret.
“saying ‘Zip-up’ means don’t open your mouth to tell
anybody anything.” “Zip-up means the same thing as
keep your mouth closed and keep a secret if you know
what is good for you.” “Often when my children are too
loud, I tell them that if they don’t zip up, I’ll cut out their
tongues.” *

Zip-your-lip 
Don’t reveal what you know; don’t speak about it; keep
it secret; keep it to yourself. “My big brother said I had
better zip-my-lip about who broke the window or he
would punch me in the mouth.” *

Zonked-out 
Zapped; knocked out asleep; dead to the world. “When I
went by Dizzy’s place this afternoon, he was still zonked
out on the sofa from mixing alcohol and pills.”*

Zoom in on 
With a camera lens we can zoom in on a certain spot, so
we can say an investigation is focusing or zooming in on 
a certain subject or point.”*

Zoom on over 
Come quickly now to my place for a visit. “If you have
got time now, zoom right on over to the pool room I’ll be
waiting for you there with the drugs.” *

Zoomed by 
Just as an airplane zooms at a fast speed across the sky,
so we may say that a fast car zooms or speeds past
quickly. “I was almost killed last night when a motorcycle zoomed past me at top speed within inches of my
body.” “Suddenly a black van full of teenagers zoomed
by our house with shotguns blasting towards me.” *

Zoom-in-on 
Just as we can use a lens to focus down upon a certain
point in a photo to get an enhanced, clearer image, so we
can say, figuratively, that we zoom in on and focus upon
a point or an idea in an argument or investigation. “CIA
sources say are narrowing their intelligence network and
are slowly zooming in on the whereabouts of the rebel
leader.”*

Zoom-off 
Depart quickly, as a rocket might zoom away. “The spectators at Cape Canaveral watched the rocket zoom off
into outer space.” “Well, I’m afraid it is time for me to
zoom-off home and pack for tomorrow’s trip.” “Hey,
Baby! Don’t zoom off so quickly. Why don’t you hang
around a while and have a little drink with me?” * 
